Title: Motivating Innovation with Misspecified Contracts

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2602.18879v1

Published Time: Tue, 24 Feb 2026 01:46:55 GMT

Number of Pages: 89

Markdown Content:
MOTIVATING INNOVATION WITH MISSPECIFIED CONTRACTS ∗

FLORIAN MUDEKEREZA †

Abstract 

We propose a new principal-agent framework where a principal communicates a roadmap —a set of plausible outcome models and a prior belief over them—to guide an agent who is learning the value of innovation. The agent trusts the prior but fears that each model is misspecified (or incorrect). In dynamic contracting, we find an impossibility result: the agent may fall into a breakthrough trap , where early unexplained success can raise his misspecification concerns to the point that no 

contract can motivate him to continue innovating. We also obtain an upper bound on the frequency of innovative activity that tightens as the degree of misspecification increases, which then causes innovation cycles to emerge endogenously in the long run. In static contracting, we show that diversifying the roadmap increases the principal’s profit by reducing the agent’s exposure to idiosyncratic epistemic risk. 

Keywords : innovation, contract, learning, misspecification, robustness. 

I think that it is a relatively good approximation to truth—which is much too complicated to allow anything but approximations—that mathematical ideas originate in empirics. 

– von Neumann (1947, p. 183) 

# 1 Introduction 

A central theme in the management of innovation is that organizations must commit to a “business model” in order to coordinate effort, while simultaneously recognizing that the model is an imperfect description of an environment that is not yet well understood. Loch et al. (2011, Chapter 8.2) develop this idea using the notion of a “roadmap” for innovative projects conducted under high uncertainty: a roadmap is intended to discipline employ-ees’ decisions and communication even when it is incomplete, and therefore it should be accompanied with a “robust mindset” that acknowledges potential misspecification .1 We introduce such a robust mindset in Grossman and Hart’s (1983) principal-agent frame-work and find that it fundamentally changes the economics of innovation. Specifically, unlike standard economic theory, which predicts that an early breakthrough lowers the cost of future innovation (Manso, 2011), our framework predicts the opposite effect. To fix ideas, consider a materials-science lab where a Chief Scientific Officer (the principal) hires a Senior Research Scientist (the agent) to discover a new compound. On  

> ∗I am very grateful to Drew Fudenberg for his support and mentorship.
> †Department of Economics, MIT, florianm@mit.edu .
> 1Loch et al. (2011, pp. 172–173) note: “A map, even a bad one, can help the organization to cope with the threatening and uncontrollable nature of the unknown. It helps to make team members action-oriented and discover other sources of information that may be more appropriate than the bad map. The role of a map in the ability to cope with unk unks, which we call ‘robust mind-set’ [...]”
> arXiv:2602.18879v1 [econ.TH] 21 Feb 2026

one hand, the principal has access to the lab’s historical data, protocols, and simula-tion tools that jointly produce a disciplined set of predictive scenarios for experimental outcomes, which we refer to as “structured knowledge”: a set of plausible outcome distri-butions Q and a prior belief μ that assigns likelihoods to these distributions. Under moral hazard, the principal guides the agent through the project by communicating her struc-tured knowledge ( μ, Q ) as a roadmap . The agent, on the other hand, is a sophisticated 

expert who treats μ as a credible summary statistic of the lab’s accumulated historical evidence, but is concerned that Q is misspecified . This reflects the attitude of scientists in large labs who believe protocols are well-calibrated, but still recognize that models are approximations of real experiments and thus may fail to identify new compounds. The central question then becomes how incentive provision interacts with learning when the evidence generated by the project endogenously affects the agent’s trust in models. Our baseline dynamic framework introduces Lanzani’s (2025) robust-control ap-proach into Manso’s (2011) seminal two-period environment that isolates the tension between incentive schemes that motivate “routine” and “innovative” activities. Our main result, Theorem 1, is an impossibility result that arises when the agent’s concern for mis-specification is endogenous. We identify a “Good News is Bad News” phenomenon, where early success in a project can paradoxically reduce, rather than increase, the feasibility of sustaining innovation. (i) Good News : standard Bayesian theory implies that early success relaxes incentive constraints by signaling higher project quality. (ii) Bad News :early unexplained success, however, will simultaneously raise the agent’s misspecification concerns about the models and hence compress the set of continuation payoffs. When this misspecification effect dominates the Bayesian-theory effect, Theorem 1 shows that no 

contract can motivate the agent to continue innovating after achieving a breakthrough. We refer to this implementability failure as a breakthrough trap . In this trap, increases in the post-success value of continued innovation no longer raise equilibrium continuation effort and cease to affect the principal’s equilibrium payoff. This negative finding suggests that in innovation projects where early breakthroughs are poorly explained by models, high-powered incentives may exhibit a weak association with future innovation effort. To illustrate the breakthrough trap, consider a materials-science lab in 2023 whose Chief Scientific Officer designs a roadmap for a project on room-temperature supercon-ductivity based on an infamous material called LK-99 (see, Lee et al., 2023). Suppose the Senior Research Scientist follows the roadmap and obtains an early successful exper-imental outcome. Interpreting this success as a positive signal of the project’s quality, the Chief Scientific Officer encourages the scientist to scale up the experiments. How-ever, after auditing the mechanism behind the early success, the scientist realizes that it is actually driven by an incidental byproduct of the process—an impurity that can reproduce the same performance pattern—rather than by the mechanism the roadmap 1relies on (see, Garisto, 2023a,b). In other words, the scientist is now convinced that the roadmap is misspecified—it did not produce the success for reasons it claimed. Since success can occur through channels that the roadmap does not discipline, the scientist concludes that exerting effort to scale up the LK-99 project is no longer justifiable. 2

Theorem 1 has revealed that post-success contractibility depends critically on how informative realized outcomes are about model misspecification. We therefore propose three managerial approaches to prevent breakthrough traps. (1) “Tolerating early fail-ure” by reporting coarse performance evaluations can preserve continuation incentives by reducing the extent to which any single success constitutes a sharp “misspecification shock” (Corollaries 1–2). (2) A principal can screen agents at hiring using a menu of path-dependent contracts to select agents who are not too sensitive to unexplained evidence (Corollary 3). (3) When neither feedback design nor screening is available, we show that a post-success turnover policy—prescribing that the agent be replaced or reassigned—may be effective because a new agent would observe the early breakthrough without expe-riencing the associated misspecification shock (Corollary 4). Notice that this policy is the opposite of the standard “termination” policy prescribing that the principal replaces the agent after early failure (e.g., Manso, 2011). Our framework therefore provides a new explanation for the so-called “paradoxes of success,” where certain employees (e.g., founders, CEOs) get replaced after achieving major milestones (Wasserman, 2003; Ewens and Marx, 2018). 3 Here, the replacement is not due to changes in skill or technology but instead it is due to the epistemic cost of discovery—the act of achieving a breakthrough is itself a diagnostic shock that can degrade the agent’s trust in models. Our second main result, Theorem 2, establishes a long-run upper bound on innovative activities when the roadmap is misspecified. In an infinite-horizon extension, Theorem 2 shows that equilibrium innovation intensity is subject to a speed limit : the long-run frequency of innovative activities is bounded above by a quantity that is inversely pro-portional to the degree of misspecification. This happens because repeated innovation generates model-diagnostic evidence that, when models are misspecified, systematically raises the agent’s misspecification concerns and therefore tightens dynamic incentive ca-pacity . As a result, equilibrium behavior exhibits endogenous “exploration–exploitation” 

cycles in which periods of active innovation are followed by phases in which the orga-nization prioritizes routine tasks to prevent the agent’s misspecification concerns from overshooting. Such cycles have been documented in practice and are attributed to sev-eral factors, including technological change (e.g., Anderson and Tushman, 2018). Here,  

> 2Castelvecchi (2023, p. 18) remarks: “The wave of excitement caused by LK-99—the purple crystal that was going to change the world—has now died down after studies showed it wasn’t a superconductor.”
> 3In a dataset of 202 Internet firms, Wasserman (2003, p. 149) finds empirical evidence of this by reporting: “My findings point to multiple ‘paradoxes of success’ in which the Founder-CEO’s success at achieving critical milestones actually causes the chance of Founder-CEO succession to rise dramatically.”

2innovation cycles arise for a novel reason: organizations have to manage both their agents’ efforts and misspecification concerns. Our framework therefore suggests that innovation intensity is upper bounded and exhibits endogenous cycles in high-uncertainty domains (e.g., materials/drug discovery), where diagnostic evidence indicates poor roadmap fit. Thus, an organization can speed up innovation intensity by improving its roadmap fit, e.g., running more diagnostic tests, performing more replications, and tuning parameters. We then show that breakthrough traps persist even in the long run when a sophis-ticated agent is repeatedly taking actions based on a misspecified roadmap. A natural way to shut down the mechanism that generates these traps is to have the agent behave as a na¨ ıve, unsophisticated statistical learner. A leading example is an agent who is too “lenient” in his assessment of the roadmap’s performance relative to realized data in the sense that he attributes too much unexplained evidence to sampling variability. When this is the case, the agent’s misspecification concerns will vanish in the long run despite the presence of misspecification, and as a result, our principal-agent framework converges to Manso’s (2011) expected-utility framework, where breakthrough traps do not arise. We also obtain some new static results. Proposition 3 shows that the principal ben-efits from diversifying the roadmap in the sense of making the prior μ more dispersed while holding its mean fixed, i.e., communicating a mean-preserving spread is profitable. The intuition is that prior diversification reduces the cost of implementing high-effort actions because it smooths out the agent’s misspecification concerns across many models before the agent applies his within-model robustness adjustments. This provides an eco-nomic rationale for a natural managerial prescription: when delegating innovative tasks to sophisticated agents who are concerned about model misspecification, it is profitable to communicate a diverse portfolio of plausible scenarios rather than a single “best guess.” Given this insight, we also endogenize the roadmap selection by allowing the principal to design the prior μ subject to incentive and credibility constraints. Proposition 4 shows that the optimal prior takes a simple logit functional form determined by an incentive score that reflects each model’s marginal value in relaxing binding constraints. We also characterize optimal contracts in static settings and show that our framework is tractable. We find that optimal contracts exist, the agent’s participation constraint binds, and whenever the implemented action is not the least costly action, at least one incentive constraint binds (Proposition 1). We then also show that optimal contracts are typically nonlinear and non-monotone except when the principal implements the least costly action. Nonlinearities contrast existing results in the literature on contracting under ambiguity, where contracts are typically linear (e.g., Carroll, 2015; D¨ utting et al., 2024). Since linearity is interpreted as a form of “simplicity,” nonlinearities suggest that contracts that motivate innovation tend to be complex. Complexity arises because the agent’s effective model responds endogenously and pessimistically to incentive provision. 3We now discuss the key primitives of our framework. On one hand, the agent is forward-looking, risk averse, and has misspecification concerns. To formalize the separa-tion between his trust in the prior μ and his concern about misspecification of Q, we follow the robust-control literature by adopting Lanzani’s (2025) average robust control (ARC) criterion. Under ARC, the agent first applies Hansen and Sargent’s (2001) multiplier ro-bustness adjustments within each model q ∈ Q, reflecting his fear of misspecification. He then evaluates the overall contract by averaging linearly across structured models using the principal’s communicated prior μ, reflecting his trust in μ. On the other hand, the principal is also forward-looking, but since she is the designer or architect of the roadmap, she is neutral to both risk and ambiguity, and has no concern for misspecification (e.g., Lopomo et al., 2011; Kellner, 2015, 2017). A key special case of our static framework is the seminal framework of Grossman and Hart (1983), which arises when the agent also has no concern for model misspecification, i.e., when he also trusts all the models in Q.— Related Work : Our main contribution is to the theoretical literature on incentive pro-vision for innovation, pioneered by Manso (2011) who argues that contracts that tolerate failure in the short run and reward success in the long run are best suited for motivat-ing innovation (e.g., Ederer and Manso, 2013; Tian and Wang, 2014). In contrast, we identify new dynamic constraints when a sophisticated misspecification-averse agent can learn: observing unexplained successful outcomes endogenously tighten incentive capacity by increasing the agent’s misspecification concerns, generating both local implementabil-ity failures and long-run upper bounds on innovation frequency. Since these results are driven by the endogenous evolution of the agent’s misspecification concerns, they cannot be generated by classical frameworks such as expected utility or maxmin (Gilboa and Schmeidler, 1989) because these frameworks do not capture concerns for model misspec-ification. In fact, these two frameworks constitute two extreme long-run limits of our framework, where the agent is, respectively, either too lenient or too demanding in his evaluation of the organization’s roadmap in light of realized outcomes (Observation 6). We also contribute to the literature on contracts under ambiguity by introducing con-cerns for model misspecification on the agent-side of Grossman and Hart’s (1983) moral-hazard environment. Lopomo et al. (2011) are the first paper to introduce ambiguity on the agent-side by assuming the agent has a Bewley preference (Bewley, 2002). In con-trast, we emphasize a separation between the agent’s trust in the organization’s prior and his concern for model misspecification, which is not possible in popular frameworks such as maxmin preferences (Gilboa and Schmeidler, 1989), Choquet preferences (Schmeidler, 1989), Bewley preferences (Bewley, 2002), or smooth ambiguity preferences (Klibanoff et al., 2005). This separation is key because it allows our agent to learn about likelihoods and misspecifications separately. Lanzani’s (2025) ARC preference therefore provides an economically meaningful and tractable way of representing Loch et al.’s (2011) “robust 4mindset” in high-uncertainty contracting settings. Unlike Lanzani (2025) who assumes a myopic agent, our agent is forward-looking, so we build directly on Maccheroni et al.’s (2006b) insights to obtain the first recursive representation of ARC, which is dynamically consistent (Appendix A.1). Section 8.5 discusses other papers in this literature. — Outline : The remainder of the paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 introduces our static framework and primitives. Section 3 characterizes optimal static contracts, fol-lowed by comparative statics in Section 4. Section 5 introduces dynamics and analyzes breakthrough traps, and Section 6 examines how to avoid them. Section 7 establishes innovation cycles. Section 8 provides some extensions and concluding remarks. 

# 2 Framework 

We consider a principal-agent problem under moral hazard, where a principal delegates a task to an agent. Let Y be a finite set of outcomes and A be a finite set of actions. 

Structured knowledge. For each action a ∈ A, there is a nonempty finite set Qa ⊂

∆( Y ) of first-order outcome distributions or “structured models” and a second-order prior belief μa on Qa with full support. Let each q ∈ Qa have full support on Y for every a ∈ A.Then, define the mean model ¯ qa ∈ ∆( Y ) with weights μa as ¯ qa(.) := Eμa [q(.)]. 

Communication. We interpret ( μa, Q a) as the principal’s (exogenous) 4 roadmap for action a that she communicates to the agent to guide him in the execution of a new task. The agent treats μa as a credible baseline belief because he recognizes the organization’s track record in classifying new scenarios based on historical data and aggregate scientific knowledge. 5 However, he also faces a daunting reality: his specific task is novel. He therefore fears that all models in Qa are misspecified representations of the true model. 6

## 2.1 Principal, agent, and wages 

Most of the primitives in our static principal-agent problem coincide with Grossman and Hart (1983). Specifically, the agent chooses an action a ∈ A, which affects the distribution of outcomes y ∈ Y . The principal observes only the outcome y but not the action a.

Principal. The principal is neutral to both risk and ambiguity. Thus, under action a,the expected wage is E¯qa [w(y)]. Conditional on implementing action a∗, she minimizes        

> 4Section 8.1 examines how to design the roadmap endogenously to help relax incentive constraints.
> 5This belief agreement between agent and principal is justified in organizational culture (e.g., Van den Steen, 2005, 2010). As Van den Steen (2005, p. 257) notes: “A stronger belief of the manager increases the effort and utility of employees who agree with her. The reason is that these employees get easier approval for the projects they undertake, which gives them a higher expected return on their efforts. Stronger managerial beliefs will decrease the effort and utility of employees who disagree with the manager.”
> 6Section 8.2 discusses how to study settings where the agent also distrusts the prior μa. Alternatively, Section 8.3 considers the opposite modeling approach, where the agent trusts Qabut distrusts μa.

5E¯qa∗ [w(y)] over wages that implement a∗. Notice that the mean model ¯ qa∗ is the principal’s 

effective outcome distribution under a∗. This implies that she is not concerned that the roadmap ( μa, Q a) is misspecified. The intuition is that the roadmap is an organizational construct designed by the principal to guide the agent, so she trusts it (see, Section 2.3). 

Agent. The agent has a utility function u : R → R that is strictly increasing and strictly concave. Following Grossman and Hart (1983) and Kellner (2015, 2017), let lim w→−∞ u(w) = −∞ and lim w→+∞ u(w) = + ∞,7 so u is onto R and hence invertible. Let h := u−1 : R → R, so h is strictly increasing and strictly convex. Each action a ∈ A

has an effort cost c(a) ∈ R. The main novelty in our framework is that the agent’s valuation is represented by Lanzani’s (2025) average robust control (ARC) criterion: 

Va(w) = Eμa

"

min  

> p∈∆( Y)

n

Ep

u(w(y))  + 1

λDKL (p∥q)

o#

− c(a), (1) for every a ∈ A, w ∈ RY , and DKL (p∥q) := P 

> y∈Y

p(y) log p(y) 

> q(y)

≥ 0 is the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence. The parameter λ > 0 captures the agent’s distrust of the models Qa.Here is an interpretation of (1). After the agent chooses action a without knowing the true model, an adversary—“Nature”—chooses a model p ∈ ∆( Y ) so as to minimize the agent’s expected utility. Nature incurs a “penalty” for choosing models p that are farther from the roadmap q ∈ Qa because such models may be more harmful to the agent’s welfare. An agent represented by (1) foresees this, leading him to be pessimistic about the outcome of action a. His pessimism is captured by Hansen and Sargent’s (2001) multiplier valuation of action a under model q ∈ Qa. The agent then averages linearly the valuations across the q’s using μa. This linearity reflects the agent’s trust in μa.ARC is a variational preference and has three key special cases: (1) When μa is a unit mass on a single model in Qa, the ARC criterion becomes the multiplier criterion of Hansen and Sargent (2001), axiomatized by Strzalecki (2011). (2) When λ → 0, the ARC criterion converges to the subjective expected utility criterion, in which case, our static framework would coincide with Grossman and Hart (1983), where both the principal and agent use the mean model ¯ qa. (3) When λ → ∞ , the ARC criterion converges to Gilboa and Schmeidler’s (1989) maxmin criterion, where the set of subjective models is ∆( Y ). For any wage schedule w ∈ RY , let x(y) := u(w(y)) ∈ R, and w(y) = h(x(y)). Given that u is strictly increasing, x and w encode the same information, so we will rewrite the ARC in terms of x. For any real vector x = ( x(y)) y∈Y and q ∈ Qa, the well-known variational identity of Dupuis and Ellis (1997, Proposition 1.4.2) yields min  

> p∈∆( Y)

n

Ep[x(y)] + 1

λDKL (p∥q)

o

= − 1

λ log  Eq

e−λx (y) , (2) 

> 7This condition will help prove that participation and some incentive constraints bind (Propositions 1 and 9), but the rest of our results do not rely on it, so assuming limited liability is mostly harmless.

6whose unique minimizer is pq,λ (y; x) ∝ q(y)e−λx (y), which is an exponential distortion of 

q based on x. Then, for each a and x, ARC valuation (1) can be rewritten compactly as 

Fa(x) := − 1

λEμa

h

log  Eq

e−λx (y) i

− c(a) (3) so that Va(w) = Fa(x) in eq. (1) when x(y) = u(w(y)), where q ∈ Qa and μa ∈ ∆( Qa). 

## 2.2 Principal’s problem 

We are now ready to state the principal’s problem. Fix an action a∗ ∈ A that the principal aims to implement. Writing wages as w(y) = h(x(y)), the principal’s problem becomes: (Pxa∗ ) min 

> x∈RY

E¯qa∗

h(x(y)) 

s.t. IR: Fa∗ (x) ≥ U0,

IC: Fa∗ (x) − Fa(x) ≥ 0 ∀a̸ = a∗. (4) The objective function above is the principal’s expected wage bill under the mean model ¯ qa∗ . The individual rationality (IR) constraint requires the agent’s ARC valuation of a∗ to be at least his reservation utility U0, while the incentive compatibility (IC) constraints require that a∗ yield at least as high ARC utility as any alternative action a.Unlike the principal who uses ¯ qa, the agent’s effective model is (Lemma 2.(iv)) 

πay (x) := Eμa

"

q(y)e−λx (y)

P 

> z∈Y

q(z)e−λx (z)

#

,

for all y, x , and a. Observe that πay (x) is contract-contingent , i.e., given action a, πay (x) is sensitive to the utility profile x being evaluated—it is an average of worst-case distortions of models in Qa. This simple structure reveals a novel economic tension that is unique to robust-control preferences: incentive provision for innovation is self-defeating when the agent has misspecification concerns, i.e., higher-powered incentives make the agent’s effective model shift more mass toward worst-case outcomes when stakes are high, and therefore the marginal effect of increasing incentives is dampened endogenously. 

## 2.3 Discussion: roadmap and misspecification 

We borrow the term “roadmap” from the title of Loch et al. (2011, Chapter 8.2.2): “A Roadmap into Unknown Terrain” because they argue that it is a “rational coordination device” in organizations. 8 We interpret such a roadmap as a model-belief “library” that 

> 8Specifically, as Loch et al. (2011, p. 172) remark: “A map of this kind is not only a rational decision coordination device, but it also gives team members a feeling of security in the light of changes that are unexpected and hard to interpret.” Similarly, Van den Steen (2010, p. 646) adds: “Shared beliefs will be especially prevalent in small organizations where communication flows easily, in organizations that involve their employees in decision making, and in firms that invest a lot in socialization and training.”

7managers share with their scientists to guide them in the execution of innovative tasks. This is consistent with Van den Steen (2010, p. 621) who argues that: “The manager’s beliefs give direction to the firm by influencing the employees’ decisions, and thus also lead to coordination.” This approach is also standard in recent moral-hazard frameworks. 9

Traditional moral-hazard frameworks assume rational expectations—both the prin-cipal and agent know the true outcome distribution (Section 8.5). Miao and Rivera (2016, p. 1406) suggest a departure from this assumption because: “Economic data come from an unknown member of a set of unspecified models.” This departure is consistent with innovation domains such as materials-science settings, where scientists rely on their labs’ models and equipments to forecast new experimental outcomes. Thus, our principal faces neither ambiguity nor misspecification, whereas the agent does. This assumption is stan-dard in the literature (e.g., Lopomo et al., 2011; Kellner, 2015, 2017; D¨ utting et al., 2024). Lopomo et al. (2011, p. 1149) justify this by noting: “The principal owns the production technology and can evaluate the relation between effort and output more precisely.” 

# 3 Static Contracts 

We start by characterizing the static principal-agent problem, which will help build intu-ition for dynamic results and illustrate that our framework is well-behaved and tractable. 

## 3.1 Existence 

We establish that for any action a∗ that the principal wishes to implement, an optimal contract exists, i.e., ( Pxa∗ ) in (4) has a solution. We first define the feasible set of contracts. 

Definition 1 (Feasible set) . Fix action a∗ ∈ A. The feasible set in utility space is 

Xa∗ := 

n

x ∈ RY : Fa∗ (x) ≥ U0, F a∗ (x) − Fa(x) ≥ 0 ∀a̸ = a∗

o

.

Proposition 1 (Optimal contract) . Fix some action a∗ ∈ A.1. (Existence) . Suppose Xa∗̸ = ∅. Then, the objective function x 7 → E¯qa∗ [h(x(y))] 

attains its minimum on Xa∗ .2. (IR binds) . Fix U0 such that Xa∗̸ = ∅. If x⋆ solves (Pxa∗ ), then Fa∗ (x⋆) = U0.

3. (Some IC binds) . If a∗ /∈ arg min a∈A c(a) and x⋆ solves (Pxa∗ ), then there exists some 

ˆa̸ = a∗ with Fa∗ (x⋆) − Fˆa(x⋆) = 0 .

> 9For example, Lopomo et al. (2011, p. 1154) interpret a roadmap as a “consistency” requirement for beliefs by noting that: “In our model, both parties have consistent beliefs [...] but might have different attitudes toward uncertainty.” Similarly, Miao and Rivera (2016, p. 1411) assume that both parties have access to the same model, and each party views it as an “approximation model.”

8Proposition 1.1 is reassuring because it shows that there always exists an optimal incentive scheme, despite the agent’s misspecification concerns. We then say that an optimal contract implementing action a∗ is misspecified if the corresponding roadmap (μa∗ , Q a∗ ) is misspecified. Proposition 1.2 shows that there always exists an optimal contract where IR binds. Proposition 1.3 then shows that if the implemented action is not least-cost, then in any optimal contract there must be at least one IC constraint that binds. Proposition 1 therefore indicates that our static framework is well-behaved in the sense that it preserves many key features from classical contract theory. 

## 3.2 Wage structure 

Ghirardato (1994) shows that non-monotone contracts typically arise under ambiguity. We first show in Observation 1 that when the implemented action is the least costly action, incentives are satisfied by a constant contract and hence are monotone. 

Observation 1. Suppose a∗ ∈ arg min a∈A c(a) and (Pxa∗ ) is feasible. Define x0 := ξ · 1,where ξ := U0 + c(a∗). Then, x0 is feasible and solves (Pxa∗ ).

Next, we show in a simple example that optimal contracts in our framework are typically nonlinear. This observation contrasts existing papers in the literature on con-tracts under ambiguity, where optimal contracts tend to be linear (e.g., Carroll, 2015; D¨ utting et al., 2024). The source of nonlinearities is the self-defeating nature of incentive provision caused by the agent’s effective contract-contingent belief πay (x) (Section 2.2). 

Example. Let Y = {0, 1, 2} and A = {H, L }, with c(H) = 1 and c(L) = 0. Let Q(L) = 

{qL} where qL = (0 .05 , 0.90 , 0.05) , and let Q(H) = {qH 

> 1

, q H 

> 2

} with μH (qH 

> 1

) = μH (qH 

> 2

) = 12 ,where qH 

> 1

= (0 .30 , 0.40 , 0.30) and qH 

> 2

= (0 .45 , 0.10 , 0.45) . Consider any linear contract in utility space, x(y) = α + βy for constants α, β ∈ R. The IC difference in (4) becomes 

FH (x) − FL(x) = − 1

> λ

 12 log MqH 

> 1

(β) + 12 log MqH 

> 2

(β) − log MqL (β) − 1 and does not depend on α, where Mq(β) := q(0) + q(1) e−λβ + q(2) e−2λβ . Then, for i ∈ { 1, 2},

MqHi (β)−MqL (β) = ζi

 1−2e−λβ +e−2λβ  = ζi

 1−e−λβ 2 ≥ 0, (ζ1 = 0 .25 , ζ 2 = 0 .40) .

Thus, MqHi (β) ≥ MqL (β) for all β and i, so 12 log MqH 

> 1

(β) + 12 log MqH 

> 2

(β) ≥ log MqL (β).

Plugging this in FH (x) − FL(x) yields FH (x) − FL(x) ≤ − 1 for every β. In particular, no 

linear contract, x(y) = α + βy , can satisfy IC for implementing H. The intuition is that, under a linear contract, ARC aggregates payoffs exponentially in y: when the high-cost action H is more dispersed model-by-model, the exponential in y increases for all slopes 

β, so the agent strictly prefers the low-cost action L regardless of the linear incentive. 94 Comparative statics 

This section studies how the principal’s profit is affected by an increase in the agent’s misspecification concerns (Section 4.1) and by second-order dispersions (Section 4.2). 

## 4.1 Misspecification concerns 

We examine how the principal’s minimized wage bill changes when the agent becomes more concerned about misspecification, i.e., when λ increases. Given λ, write Fa(x; λ)for the valuation in (3), and define the minimized wage bill when implementing a∗ as 

Wa∗ (λ) := inf E¯qa∗

h(x(y))  : x ∈ Xa∗ (λ) , (5) where Xa∗ (λ) is the feasible set defined as in Definition 1 using Fa(·; λ). Now, define the average within-model KL distortion: Ka(x, λ ) := Eμa

DKL 

 pq,λ (·; x)∥q , where pq,λ (·; x)denotes the unique minimizer of eq. (2). Define the IC gap for a deviation a̸ = a∗:∆a∗,a (x; λ) := Fa∗ (x; λ) − Fa(x; λ). Then, consider the following condition: 

Ka∗ (x, λ ) ≥ Ka(x, λ ) ∀a̸ = a∗, ∀x ∈ RY , ∀λ > 0. (6) 

Proposition 2. Fix a∗ and suppose (Pxa∗ ) is feasible for the λ’s under consideration. Then, (6) is equivalent to: for every a̸ = a∗ and every x ∈ RY , ∆a∗,a (x; λ) is weakly decreasing in λ on (0 , ∞). Moreover, if this condition holds, then Wa∗ (λ) in eq. (5) is weakly increasing in λ and hence the principal’s maximal profit is weakly decreasing in λ.

Proposition 2 identifies an intuitive sufficient condition under which higher misspec-ification concerns raise the wage bill. The condition compares the average KL distor-tion costs across actions as follows. If the implemented action generates (weakly) larger within-model distortion costs than any deviation, increasing λ disproportionately reduces the agent’s valuation of a∗ relative to deviations, shrinking the feasible set and increas-ing the minimum compensation needed to induce a∗. This result foreshadows the key mechanism of our dynamic analysis (Section 5): if λ rises excessively high, the “incentive capacity”—the maximum utility wedge feasible—may fall below the effort cost. 

## 4.2 Second-order dispersion 

This section varies the second-order prior μa holding its mean ¯ qa fixed. Throughout, we write ˜ μa ⪰ μa when ˜ μa is a mean-preserving spread of μa. Thus, ˜ μa ⪰ μa is a 

diversification of the roadmap: the probability mass is spread across a wider set of structured models while holding the mean model fixed. Proposition 3 is our main static result: it reveals that second-order dispersion of the prior is beneficial to the principal. 10 Proposition 3. Fix a∗. Let Wa∗ (μ) and Wa∗ (˜ μ) be the minimized wage bills in eq. (5), where ˜μa∗ ⪰ μa∗ and ˜μa = μa for all a̸ = a∗. Then, Wa∗ (˜ μ) ≤ Wa∗ (μ). Moreover, if there exists an optimal contract x⋆ under μ such that Fa∗ (x⋆; ˜ μa∗ ) > F a∗ (x⋆; μa∗ ), then 

Wa∗ (˜ μ) < W a∗ (μ) and the principal’s maximal profit strictly increases. 

Diversifying the roadmap for the implemented action relaxes participation and in-centive constraints, so the principal can reduce utility payments while preserving imple-mentability, which then lowers expected wages. The mechanism is that a mean-preserving spread in μa∗ raises the agent’s valuation Fa∗ (x; μa∗ ) at every contract x (Lemma 5). This finding suggests a normative guideline for framing and communicating uncertainty within organizations: managers should not conceal uncertainty from employees who have mis-specification concerns. Instead, they should communicate the full range of potential sce-narios. 10 Note also that the strict inequality in Proposition 3 requires that the additional dispersion moves uncertainty along a dimension that the contract actually prices. 

# 5 Dynamic Contracts 

This section extends our static framework to the two-period two-armed bandit framework of Manso (2011), which helps to isolate the tension between routine and innovative tasks. 

## 5.1 Two-period contracting environment 

We follow closely the primitives in Manso (2011, Section II). There are two periods 

t ∈ { 1, 2} and two outcomes Y = {0, 1}, where y = 1 is a “success” and y = 0 is a “failure.” 11 The agent chooses action at ∈ A = {1, 2} in each period t. Formally, the setting is a two-armed bandit problem with a known arm. Actions are described below. 

Safe action. Action 1 induces a known distribution q1 ∈ ∆( Y ) with q1(1) = p ∈ (0 , 1). This is the analogue of the “exploitation” (or routine) action in Manso (2011). 12 

Innovative action. Action 2 is described by structured models Q2 = {qL, q H } ⊂ ∆( Y )with qL(1) = θL, q H (1) = θH , and 0 < θ L < p < θ H < 1. This is the analogue of the “exploration” action. Notice that unlike Manso’s (2011) standard two-armed bandit with an expected-utility maximizing agent where the true distribution is assumed to be known, we are allowing the possibility of two potential distributions under innovation. The agent 

> 10 This is consistent with Wack (1985, p. 74), who argues: “Scenarios help managers structure uncer-tainty when (1) they are based on a sound analysis of reality, and (2) they change the decision makers’ assumptions about how the world works and compel them to reorganize their mental model of reality.”
> 11 Manso (2011, p. 1850) provides a justification for focusing on two outcomes. Online Appendix A investigates how adding more outcomes would affect our main results.
> 12 To focus on the tension between exploration and exploitation, we omit the possibility of “shirking.” Online Appendix B allows shirking and shows that it reinforces our impossibility result (Theorem 1).

11 holds a second-order belief μ1 ∈ ∆( Q2) with μ1(qH ) = m ∈ (0 , 1). If a1 = 1, set μ2 = μ1.If a1 = 2 and y1 is observed, the posterior μ2(·| y1) is obtained by Bayes rule: 

μ2(qH |y1 = 1) ∝ m θ H , μ2(qH |y1 = 0) ∝ m(1 − θH ). (7) 

Costs. c(1) = 0 and c(2) = k > 0, so innovation is the more costly action. 

Contracts. A dynamic contract is a pair ( x1, x 2), where x1 : Y → R and x2 : Y ×Y → R

denote the utility payments in period 1 and 2, respectively. As in the static setting, the monetary wage that delivers utility x is h(x), and the principal incurs cost h(x). 

Principal. The principal’s discount rate for period-2 utility is normalized to 1, and we allow her period-2 utility to be scaled by a constant A > 1. Specifically, define 

R2 := 1 + ( A − 1) 1{a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2 },

so period-1 utility is y1 and period-2 utility is R2y2. That is, if the agent innovates early, succeeds, and continues to innovate, the period-2 utility is scaled by R2 = A > 1 to capture the idea that projects become more valuable to the principal after early success. 

Agent. The agent’s discount rate for period-2 utility is also normalized to 1. 13 Histories are h1 = ∅ and h2 = y1 ∈ Y . Given each ht, the agent updates μt via Bayes rules (7), and we will also allow him to update his concern for misspecification λt, so the state at time 

t will be the pair ( μt(ht), λ t(ht)). Before introducing the updating rule for λt, recall that the static ARC criterion in eq. (1) is a variational preference, so we first have to define its 

recursive representation for our forward-looking agent using Maccheroni et al.’s (2006b) insights. To this end, let κt denote a “one-step ambiguity index” defined as follows: 

• If a = 1, then for any r ∈ ∆( Y ) and every t, set κt(ht, 1; r) := 1 

> λt(ht)

DKL (r∥q1).

• If a = 2, represent distortions as a joint distribution π ∈ ∆( Q2 × Y ) with a bench-mark π0 

> t

(q, y ) := μt(ht)( q) q(y) for all t, and set 

κt(ht, 2; π) := 



1

λt(ht) DKL (π∥π0 

> t

), if πQ2 = μt(ht),

+∞, otherwise, for every t, where πQ2 is the marginal of π on Q2.We can now define the agent’s continuation values by backward induction: 

V2(y1; x2) := max  

> a2∈{ 1,2}

V2

 y1, a 2; x2(y1, ·), V1(x1, x 2) := max  

> a1∈{ 1,2}

V1

 ∅, a 1; x1(·) + V2(·; x2),

where for each t, h t, a and payoff vector z : Y → R,

Vt(ht, 1; z) := min  

> r∈∆( Y)

n X 

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + κt(ht, 1; r)

o

, (8) 

> 13 We should note that discount rates do not affect our results, so we follow Manso (2011) by normal-izing both the principal’s and agent’s discount rates to 1. The agent’s discount rate will play a role in the infinite-horizon setting just to ensure his continuation values are well-behaved (Appendix B).

12 Vt(ht, 2; z) := min  

> π∈∆( Q2×Y)

n X 

> (q,y )

π(q, y ) z(y) + κt(ht, 2; π)

o

− k. (9) Appendix A.1 uses Maccheroni et al. (2006b) to show that the induced preference is a recursive variational preference , and it is dynamically consistent (Proposition 5). 14 

Intuitively, our one-step ambiguity index κt captures the idea of “local” misspecification concerns: when the agent chooses to innovate, he is concerned that Nature would distort the first-order probabilities over outcomes Y but not the second-order probabilities over 

Q2. That is, the agent trusts that Bayes rule is the correct updating rule across models, but fears misspecification within each model. Appendix A.1 formalizes this intuition. 

5.1.1 Endogenous misspecification concerns 

The key novelty in our dynamic analysis is that we allow the agent to update his misspeci-fication concern λ endogenously given past histories using the average log-likelihood-ratio (LLR) updating rule introduced in Lanzani (2025, eq. (2)). This is formalized below. 

Assumption 1. Fix γ > 0. If a1 = 1 , λ2 = λ1. If a1 = 2 , then after observing y1 ∈ Y ,15 

λ2(y1) = − 1

γ log max 

> q∈Q2

q(y1). (10) This LLR updating rule is the standard approach used in statistics for hypothe-sis testing and model selection under misspecification (e.g., Foutz and Srivastava, 1977; Vuong, 1989). Notably, Lanzani (2025, Theorem 1) provides the key normative justifi-cations for this updating rule by showing that it is a rationality benchmark in repeated decision problems. In our framework, this rule takes a very simple closed form. 

Lemma 1. Under Assumption 1 and Q2 = {qL, q H },

λ2(1) = − log( θH )

γ , λ2(0) = − log(1 − θL)

γ . (11) The constant γ captures the extent to which the agent’s concern for misspecification is sensitive to unexplained evidence. Now, for q ∈ ∆( Y ), λ > 0, and x : Y → R, define 

gq(x; λ) := − 1

λ log 

 X 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y)



. (12) For a prior belief μ ∈ ∆( Q2), the ARC criterion becomes the average of eq. (12): 

G(x; μ, λ ) := X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) gq(x; λ). (13)                    

> 14 Focusing on dynamic consistency allows us to show that our impossibility result (Theorem 1) is not driven by the agent’s behavioral biases. If dynamic consistency is dropped, then as Lanzani (2025, Section 5.1, p. 1351) remarks, it may also be technically challenging to analyze “an uncommitted, forward-looking, and sophisticated agent playing an intra-personal equilibrium with their future selves.”
> 15 Since Yis finite and all structured models have full support, we follow Lanzani’s (2025, Section 2.2) suggestion by choosing ∆( Y) as the set of alternative unstructured models. Thus, more formally, eq. (10) is λ2(y1) = LLR( y1;Q2)/γ , where LLR( y;Q2) := −log max q∈Q2q(y)max p∈∆( Y)p(y)and γ:= 2ˆ γ, for some ˆ γ > 0.

13 Incentive capacity. For any ( μ, λ ) and x, define the incentive capacity as 

C(μ, λ ) := sup 

> x∈RY

M (μ, λ ; x), (14) where M (μ, λ ; x) := G(x; μ, λ ) − gq1 (x; λ) is the incentive gap. The incentive capacity 

C(μ, λ ) is the maximum wedge between innovative and safe utility that the principal can create given the state ( μ, λ ). This quantity will play a central role in our analysis because, given the state ( μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)), the continuation action a2 = 2 is implementable after observing a success y1 = 1 if and only if C(μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)) ≥ k (see, Proposition 6). 

Dynamic game. Hereafter, “equilibrium” will refer to a subgame-perfect Nash equilib-rium (SPNE) of the induced two-period extensive-form game. To ease exposition, techni-cal details are in Appendices A.2–A.3, which formalize subgame-perfect implementability (Definitions 3–4) and characterize optimal dynamic contracts (Propositions 6–9). 

## 5.2 Impossibility result: breakthrough trap 

A breakthrough trap is said to occur when the post-success incentive capacity falls below the agent’s cost of innovation. This concept is defined more formally below. 

Definition 2. A breakthrough trap occurs when C(μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)) < k .We are now ready to state our main result, which reveals that, after early unexplained success, it may be impossible to motivate the agent to continue innovating in the future. 

Theorem 1 (Breakthrough trap) . Fix (p, θ H , m, k, γ, A ) with 0 < p < θ H < 1, k > 0,and define λ∗ := 1 

> k

log 1−p 

> 1−θH

. If λ2(1) > λ ∗, then there exists ¯θL ∈ (0 , p ) such that for all θL ∈ (0 , ¯θL), the post-success incentive capacity satisfies C(μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)) < k. 

Consequently, under any dynamic contract and any induced subgame-perfect equilibrium: 1. After (a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1) , the continuation action a2 = 2 is never implemented. 2. The principal’s expected profit is independent of the scale-up multiplier A.

Theorem 1 highlights a fundamental tension between Bayesian learning and endoge-nous misspecification concerns. In standard exploration-exploitation frameworks such as Manso (2011), a breakthrough is “Good News” in the following sense: it shifts the posterior μ2 toward the model qH , which increases the expected returns of continued in-novation. In our framework, however, a breakthrough also reveals whether the models are flawed, which triggers an endogenous shock in the agent’s post-success misspecification concern λ2(1) = − 1 

> γ

log θH . When λ2(1) > λ ∗ = 1 

> k

log 1−p 

> 1−θH

,16 the misspecification shock            

> 16 This condition can be rewritten as klog 1
> θH> γ log 1−p
> 1−θH, so it is valid, for example, when θHis small enough (breakthrough is surprising) or γis small enough (agent is very sensitive to misspecification).

14 dominates the improvement in the posterior belief from Bayesian updating. Then, the agent’s shadow cost of robustness—the risk premium required to bear the uncertainty of innovation—rises faster than the project’s expected surplus. As a result, the incen-tive capacity C(μ2, λ 2)—the maximum transferable utility the principal can promise per unit of risk—falls below the cost of effort k. Theorem 1.1 then shows that it becomes impossible to motivate the agent to innovate in period 2. This result reveals that a success—the very signal that makes a project more valuable—paradoxically renders in-novation uncontractible in the future when it is poorly explained by the organization’s models. Thus, the threshold λ∗ is the maximum level of misspecification concern that the agency relationship can sustain before innovation becomes impossible to incentivize. Theorem 1.2 is a negative consequence demonstrating that organizations will fail to scale up projects no matter how valuable they become after early breakthroughs. That is, even very high-powered post-success bonuses will fail to sustain innovation precisely when the organization would most benefit from scaling up (or “doubling down” on) early discoveries. In contrast, early failures can have the opposite effect on continued innovation: when θL is small, failure is well explained by the roadmap, so the LLR update keeps λ2(0) low and expands incentive capacity (Observation 2, Corollary 5). 

5.2.1 Benchmark: expected utility 

This section demonstrates that the breakthrough trap in Theorem 1 is driven entirely by endogenous misspecification concern. To illustrate this, we consider an expected-utility maximizing agent as in Manso (2011). 17 In our framework, this is the case where the agent has no concern for misspecification, i.e., λt(.) = 0 for all t. Since eqs. (12)–(13) are defined for λ > 0, we extend them at λ = 0 by taking limits: for every x ∈ RY and 

μ ∈ ∆( Q2), lim λ↓0 gq(x; λ) = Eq[x] and lim λ↓0 G(x; μ, λ ) = E¯qμ [x], where ¯ qμ := P 

> q

μ(q) q.Now, define ζx := x(1) − x(0) and ¯θ(μ) := ¯ qμ(1). Then, the incentive wedge becomes 

M (μ, 0; x) = G(x; μ, 0) − gq1 (x; 0) = ( ¯θ(μ) − p)ζx and the incentive capacity at λ = 0 is 

C(μ, 0) = sup  

> x:Y→R

M (μ, 0; x) = 



+∞, if ¯θ(μ)̸ = p, 

0, if ¯θ(μ) = p. 

If ¯θ(μ)̸ = p, choosing ζx → +∞ with the sign of ¯θ(μ) − p makes M (μ, 0; x) → +∞.In contrast, if ¯θ(μ) = p, then M (μ, 0; x) = 0 for all x. Since μ2(·| y1) has full support on {qL, q H } whenever m ∈ (0 , 1) and 0 < θ L < θ H < 1, we have ¯θ(μ2(·| y1)) ∈ (θL, θ H ). Thus, except on the measure-zero set where the equality ¯θ(μ2(·| y1)) = p holds exactly, the   

> 17 Recall that our agent is risk averse whereas he is risk neutral in Manso (2011). This difference is economically irrelevant here because as Manso (2011, p. 1850) remarks: “I assume that the agent is risk-neutral and has limited liability. Results similar to those above hold if the agent is risk averse.” In fact, assuming limited liability would only strengthen our impossibility result (Theorem 1).

15 node-specific incentive capacity is infinite, i.e., C(μ2(·| y1), 0) ≥ k ∀k > 0 and ∀y1 ∈ Y .In summary, under standard expected-utility assumption ( λt = 0 ∀t), the post-success incentive capacity condition required for existence of a breakthrough trap cannot 

hold, so innovation is always locally implementable after a breakthrough (or a failure). The breakthrough trap in Theorem 1 is therefore a misspecification-driven phenomenon. 

# 6 Preventing Breakthrough Traps 

We propose three ways to avoid breakthrough traps: (1) feedback design, (2) screening at hiring, and (3) post-success turnover. These approaches aim to complement incentive design in high-uncertainty innovation: they affect the evolution of the agent’s misspeci-fication concerns and therefore the set of continuation contracts that can be sustained. 18 

## 6.1 Feedback design 

This section studies how the principal can use feedback design —a choice of what perfor-mance information is publicly observed after period 1—to prevent breakthrough traps. 

Feedback policies. Let S = {0, 1} denote a binary evaluation signal. A feedback policy is a Markov kernel Π : Y → ∆( S), written as Π( s|y) for s ∈ S and y ∈ Y .After y1 is realized, the public signal s1 is drawn according to Π( ·| y1) and is the only period-1 outcome statistic observed by the agent, and hence the only statistic on which the continuation decision at t = 2 can be conditioned. 19 The scale-up factor continues to depend on the period-1 outcome as before, i.e., R2 := 1+( A−1) 1{a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2 }.

Accordingly, it is natural to restrict attention to feedback policies that do not generate 

false negatives , i.e., do not classify a true success as an unfavorable evaluation. 

Signal likelihoods. For any q ∈ ∆( Y ), define the induced signal distribution 

qΠ(s) := X

> y∈Y

q(y) Π( s|y), ∀s ∈ S. (15) If a1 = 2 and s1 is observed at t = 1, the agent updates the second-order prior μ1 by Bayes’ rule using the likelihoods {qΠ(s1) : q ∈ Q2}: μ2(q|s1) ∝ μ1(q) qΠ(s1) ∀q ∈ Q2. We maintain the LLR updating rule (Assumption 1), but applied to the observed feedback :

λ2(s1) = − 1

γ log max 

> q∈Q2

qΠ(s1). (16) 

Coarse evaluations. For r ∈ [0 , 1], the coarse evaluation (type-I error) policy Π r is Πr(1 |1) = 1 , Πr(1 |0) = r, (17) 

> 18 Online Appendix A shows that the presence of a verifiable intermediate outcome can also be helpful.
> 19 Note that this type of feedback design differs from recent approaches used in the moral-hazard literature, which allow “silent phases” where the agent is given no feedback (e.g., Ely et al., 2025).

16 so that true successes are always classified as favorable ( s = 1) while failures are classified as favorable with probability r ∈ [0 , 1]. The parameter r governs how coarse the evalu-ation is: higher r makes s = 1 less statistically surprising under the structured models, thereby mitigating the LLR shock in the agent’s misspecification concern λ.

Design principle I. Recall the critical threshold from Theorem 1, λ∗ = 1 

> k

log 1−p 

> 1−θH

, and note that λ2(1) = − 1 

> γ

log θH is the success-node intensity under full revelation. Under Πr, the success-node intensity becomes λ2(s1 = 1) = − 1 

> γ

log( r + (1 − r)θH ) (Lemma 7). Therefore, among all coarse evaluations, the minimal r that ensures the LLR shock at 

s1 = 1 does not exceed λ∗ takes the following closed form: 

r∗ := max 



0, e−γλ ∗

− θH

1 − θH



. (18) If λ2(1) > λ ∗, then θH < e −γλ ∗

and hence r∗ ∈ (0 , 1). Intuitively, r∗ is the minimum evaluation coarsening needed to make a favorable evaluation sufficiently unsurprising under the structured models. Corollary 1 formalizes this intuition. 

Corollary 1. Restrict attention to binary feedback policies Π satisfying no false negatives :

Π(1 |1) = 1 . Then, among all such Π that achieve λ2(s1 = 1) ≤ λ∗, the coarse evaluation 

Πr∗

uniquely minimizes the false-positive rate Π(1 |0) , where r∗ is in eq. (18). 

Design principle II. Alternatively, feedback coarsening may also prevent the posterior from collapsing to the high-success model after a favorable evaluation. This preserves second-order dispersion in μ2(·| s1 = 1) and can expand incentive capacity through the same mechanism that underlies Proposition 3. Corollary 2 formalizes this insight. 

Corollary 2. Fix primitives (p, θ H , m, k, γ ) with 0 < θ H < 1 and m ∈ (0 , 1) . Fix any 

r ∈ (0 , 1] and consider Πr in (17) . Let (μr

> 1

, λ r

> 1

) := ( μ2(·| s1 = 1) , λ 2(s1 = 1)) denote the continuation state after a favorable evaluation under Πr. Then, lim θL↓0 C(μr

> 1

, λ r

> 1

) = + ∞.

In particular, for any fixed k > 0, there exists ¯θL(r) ∈ (0 , p ) such that for all θL ∈

(0 , ¯θL(r)) , the continuation action a2 = 2 is implementable after s1 = 1 . Consequently, for sufficiently small θL, breakthrough traps cannot arise under policy Πr.

The policy Π r can be interpreted as a form of “tolerance for early failure” that com-plements Manso’s (2011) wage-based tolerance. Under Π r, true failures are reported as fa-vorable evaluations with probability r > 0—the manager is lenient in acknowledging early setbacks. Note that this mechanism differs fundamentally from Manso (2011). There, tolerance for early failure encourages innovation by reducing the agent’s fear of wage punishment. Here, tolerance for early failure preserves contractibility by reducing the diagnostic precision of favorable signals, thereby preventing the agent’s misspecification concerns from spiking after a surprising breakthrough. This suggests that organizations 17 managing innovation should be tolerant of early failure in two distinct ways: tolerant in compensation (Manso, 2011) and tolerant in performance evaluation (Corollaries 1–2). 

## 6.2 Screening at hiring 

Feedback design is effective when the principal can commit to evaluation rules ex ante. This section considers an alternative when such commitments are not possible in practice. Recall that the breakthrough trap in Theorem 1 is driven by the endogenous post-success misspecification intensity λ2(1) = − 1 

> γ

log θH (Lemma 1). This reveals a natural source of heterogeneity: agents may differ in the update scale γ > 0, which governs how sharply a breakthrough increases misspecification concerns. We now show that such heterogeneity can be screened one-shot at hiring using a menu of dynamic contracts whose key instrument is success-contingent continuation incentives. 

Types and hiring menus. Assume γ > 0 is privately known to the agent at t = 1 (hiring) and affects preferences only through the LLR updating rule in Assumption 1. A hiring menu is a pair of dynamic contracts {E, I }, where m ∈ { E, I } specifies utility payments ( xm 

> 1

, x m 

> 2

). Given type γ, the agent selects the contract that maximizes his ex-ante value. Let V m 

> 1

(γ) denote the resulting equilibrium value under contract m, where V1

is defined by (27)–(28) and ( μ2, λ 2) evolve according to (7) and Assumption 1. The key quantity in this section is the utility difference across contracts E and I:

D(γ) := V I 

> 1

(γ) − V E 

> 1

(γ).

Safe vs. innovation tracks. We interpret E as an exploitation track and I as an 

innovation track . The innovation track must use non-trivial continuation incentives after a success, because inducing continued innovation requires path dependency, i.e., making the continuation value depend on y1 as in Manso (2011). To capture this, assume the success-contingent continuation utility under the innovation track I is non-constant, i.e., 

xI

> 2

(1 , 0) ̸ = xI

> 2

(1 , 1) . (19) 

Corollary 3. Fix a hiring menu {E, I }. Suppose that under E, a1 = 1 is chosen at t = 1 

for every γ > 0, and under I, a1 = 2 is chosen at t = 1 for every γ > 0. If (19) holds, then D(γ) is strictly increasing in γ. Moreover, if D(γ′) < 0 < D (γ′′ ) for some γ′ < γ ′′ ,then there exists a unique cutoff γ∗ ∈ (γ′, γ ′′ ) such that D(γ∗) = 0 , where all types γ > γ ∗

strictly prefer track I, and all types γ < γ ∗ strictly prefer track E.

Corollary 3 characterizes a simple screening mechanism that is consistent with inno-vation problems: continuation incentives that reward success make the innovation track strictly more attractive for types with larger γ, because a larger γ dampens the post-success rise in misspecification concerns λ2(1) = − 1 

> γ

log θH and therefore raises the agent’s 18 valuation of any nonconstant success-contingent continuation pay. This screening device does not require extraneous lotteries or side signals: it relies only on the project’s own output. Combined with Theorem 1, Corollary 3 clarifies which agents are profitable for high-upside projects: when the scale-up value A is high, the principal prefers (and can screen for) types with larger γ, i.e., agents whose misspecification concerns do not become overwhelming after early unexplained success. This screening approach complements ex-isting work suggesting that shared beliefs and values in organizations originate mostly through screening in the hiring process (e.g., Van den Steen, 2010, Section 2). 

## 6.3 Post-success turnover 

If neither feedback design nor screening mechanism is applicable in practice, then what could a principal do to avoid breakthrough traps? Here, we argue that it may be beneficial to replace the agent after a breakthrough and hire a new agent. Here is the intuition: 

• Incumbent agent : After early success, his posterior μ2(.|y1 = 1) increases, and if this success is very surprising, his post-success misspecification concern λ2(1) would also increase. If λ2(1) is larger than the threshold λ∗, he would fall into a breakthrough trap, where post-success incentive capacity falls below his effort cost (Theorem 1). 

• New agent : A new agent is hired at t = 2 to replace the incumbent. The principal shares with him the early success, so he inherits the high posterior μ2(.|y1 = 1) but does not experience the associated “misspecification shock.” When his baseline misspecification concerns are low enough such that incentive capacity is larger than his cost to innovate, it would be possible to incentivize him to innovate in period 2. The effectiveness of this post-success turnover policy is formalized in the next result. 

Corollary 4. Suppose a1 = 2 is implemented at t = 1 . Fix a replacement cost φ ≥ 0.After observing y1 = 1 , the principal may pay φ and hire a new agent for t = 2 . The new agent observes y1 = 1 and has state (μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 1). If 

C μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)  < k < C  μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 1

,

then (i) a turnover contract implements a2 = 2 after (a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1) , and (ii) the principal’s net expected profit is strictly increasing in A. Moreover, if the principal’s net expected profit is upper bounded within the class of contracts that keep the incumbent after 

y1 = 1 , then, for every fixed φ, turnover is strictly optimal for all sufficiently large A.

Observe that the turnover in Corollary 4 is not about skills: the innovation cost k is a task primitive and is unchanged by replacement. The gain comes from the fact that the new agent’s misspecification concern is unaffected by the incumbent’s early breakthrough. 19 Corollary 4 provides a new explanation for the “paradoxes of success,” where some employees (e.g., founders) get replaced after completing key milestones (Wasserman, 2003). The idea here is that the person who discovers a breakthrough may not be the 

right person to scale it, not because of differences in skill, but because the act of discovery may make them too worried about model robustness to execute the scale up efficiently. 

# 7 Endogenous Innovation Cycles 

This section reveals a new long-run implication of endogenous misspecification concerns: even when breakthrough traps are locally mitigated, sustained innovation can face an en-dogenous speed limit . When innovation is valuable, this speed limit implies the emergence of endogenous “exploration-exploitation” cycles in the long run. 

Environment. We extend the two-armed bandit environment of Section 5.1 to an infinite-horizon setting. The contract remains outcome-contingent: as in Section 5.1, the principal observes outcomes but not actions, so wage payments can condition only on the public outcome history. The agent privately observes his past actions, and therefore his internal state ( μt, λ t)—Bayesian beliefs over Q2 and misspecification concern—evolves with his private action–outcome history. It is also well-established in the dynamic moral-hazard literature that the agent’s discount rate δ must be strictly less than 1 to ensure that his continuation values are well-behaved in infinite-horizon settings, so let δ ∈ (0 , 1) (e.g., Spear and Srivastava, 1987). Appendix B formalizes the infinite-horizon setting and shows how the public/private distinction enters the incentive constraints. We maintain that the agent updates his concern for misspecification using the average LLR rule λt(ht) for all t (as in Assumption 1). Lanzani (2025, eq. (2)) refers to an agent who updates using this rule as being “statistically sophisticated.” The true data-generating process is standard: conditional on the realized action path, outcomes are independent over time, with action-dependent distribution p∗

> a

. We focus on the case where the roadmap for innovation is misspecified, so the best-fit KL discrepancy for innovation D∗ 

> 2

:= min q∈Q2 DKL (p∗

> 2

∥q) satisfies D∗ 

> 2

> 0. Intuitively, D∗ 

> 2

measures how well the firm’s structured models approximate the true outcome distribution for innovation. 

Innovation frequency. Let 

αT := 1

T

> T

X

> t=1

1{at = 2 }

denote the realized innovation share up to horizon T ≥ 1. This object summarizes how frequently the agent chooses to innovate along the induced equilibrium path. 

Robustness thresholds. Since incentive capacity C(μ, λ ) shrinks as λ increases, con-tinued innovation is locally implementable only if misspecification concern λ is not too 20 large (Section 5). Recall the threshold λ∗ in Theorem 1 and redefine it as follows ¯λHk := 1

k log 1 − p

1 − θH

, ¯λLk := 1

k log pθL

, (20) which correspond to the maximal robustness levels at which innovation remains con-tractible when the agent considers qH or qL, respectively. Now, let Q2 ⊆ Q2 denote the set of structured models that best approximate the true innovation outcome distribution, i.e., Q2 := arg min q∈Q2 DKL (p∗

> 2

∥q). Then, the following constant will play a key role: 

α∗ := γD∗

> 2

· max 

> q∈Q 2

¯λk(q), (21) where ¯λk(qH ) = ¯λHk and ¯λk(qL) = ¯λLk . We are now ready to state our second main result. 

Theorem 2. Suppose innovation occurs infinitely often along an equilibrium path, the induced equilibrium contract is bounded, and Q2 is a singleton. 20 Then, (αT )T ≥1 satisfies 

lim sup  

> T→∞

αT ≤ α∗,

where α∗ is defined in (21) . Moreover, when α∗ < 1, then along any equilibrium path on which innovation occurs infinitely often, the safe action must also occur infinitely often. 

Theorem 2 reveals a novel dynamic force in infinite-horizon contracting problems. Since innovation is the only action that generates evidence about the roadmap fit, higher innovation intensity raises the agent’s misspecification concern λ in the long run, which then tightens the maximal incentive wedge C(μ, λ ) that can be generated by any outcome-contingent contract. The upper bound α∗ in (21) therefore constitutes a speed limit : it is the maximum long-run innovation intensity consistent with keeping the agent’s endoge-nous misspecification concern low enough that continued innovation remains contractible. Notice that α∗ is composed of three key forces from our framework. (1) The nu-merator γ captures the agent side : how strongly statistical evidence is translated into misspecification concerns. (2) The denominator D∗ 

> 2

captures the roadmap side : how well structured models can approximate the true innovation outcome distribution. (3) ¯λHk

and ¯λLk in (20) capture the incentive side : how much leverage a contract can extract from outcome differences between innovation and safe action before misspecification con-cerns dominate. Sustainable innovation intensity is therefore increasing in γ and in the roadmap’s incentive leverage, and decreasing in D∗ 

> 2

and in the innovation cost k. Thus, organizations can speed up innovation intensity using three distinct organizational levers: (1) hiring epistemically resilient agents (Corollary 3), which would increase γ.(2) improving their roadmaps’ fits (e.g., tuning parameters), which would reduce D∗ 

> 2

.Observe that when the roadmap is correctly specified, D∗ 

> 2

= 0, so α∗ = + ∞.

> 20 In Theorem 2, the assumption that the KL minimizer is unique can be relaxed by requiring the “local uniform convergence” of the state ( μt, λ t) in (43) to apply Proposition 10 (see, Appendix B.2).

21 (3) choosing projects with more distinguishable outcomes, which would increase ¯λ(·). Notably, when α∗ < 1, Theorem 2 shows that continued innovation cannot be im-plemented at full intensity: even in stationary environments, incentives must periodically revert to routine tasks to prevent misspecification concerns from drifting to levels at which innovation becomes uncontractible. This result isolates a new dynamic insights: when a sophisticated agent faces a high-uncertainty contracting environment, exploration– exploitation cycles emerge endogenously in the long run. 21 Importantly, these cycles are dictated by the agent’s misspecification concerns and the statistical performance of the roadmap rather than by exogenous changes in technology or payoff. 

# 8 Extensions and Concluding Remarks 

We explore some extensions of our baseline framework and discuss alternative approaches. 

## 8.1 Endogenous prior 

Loch et al. (2011, Chapter 8.2.3, p. 173) raise the following design question: “What does a map for a highly uncertain project look like? There is no general answer; the structure of the map must depend on the nature of the project and the problems to be solved.” In this section, we interpret this “map” as the second-order prior μ over benchmark models that enters the agent’s ARC evaluation. Thus far, this prior has been treated as a exogenous object pinned down ex ante by organizational procedures. In practice, however, managers often have limited discretion in how they weight existing benchmarks. Such discretion is typically disciplined by credibility: a roadmap that departs too far from established protocol or evidence is costly to defend and may not be trusted. 

Credibility constraint. In Section 5.1, fix a node of the contracting problem at which the agent evaluates innovation using the structured models Q2 and misspecification in-tensity λ > 0 (e.g., the period–2 problem after some history h2). Let μ0 ∈ ∆( Q2) be a credible baseline roadmap with full support. By “credible,” we mean, for example, that 

μ0 has outperformed other roadmaps in the past or it is justified by scientific evidence. We represent managerial discretion in choosing a roadmap using Hansen and Sar-gent’s (2001) multiplier preference, where the principal chooses a roadmap μ ∈ ∆( Q2) at credibility cost 1 

> ρ

DKL (μ∥μ0), where ρ > 0 captures how sensitive the principal is about deviations from μ0. To isolate the incentive role of the roadmap, consider the one-period 

> 21 These cycles also differ from those in standard misspecified Bayesian learning which are belief-driven (e.g., Nyarko, 1991; Fudenberg et al., 2017). In our framework, even given a fixed belief, cycles will still arise because they are driven by the agent’s endogenous misspecification concerns and not by his belief.

22 wage-minimization problem that promises utility level U0 and induces innovation: (Px,μ ) min  

> x∈RY,μ ∈∆( Q2)

n

Eμ

h

Eq

h(x(y)) i

+ 1

ρDKL (μ∥μ0)

o

(22) s.t. G(x; μ, λ ) − k ≥ U0, (23) 

G(x; μ, λ ) − k ≥ gq1 (x; λ), (24) where gq and G are defined in (12)–(13) and recall that Eμ[q] =: ¯ q2 is the mean model. The intuition here is that the principal incurs a cost for choosing to communicate a roadmap 

μ that differs significantly from a credible organization’s baseline μ0. The next result shows that the optimal credibility-regularized roadmap choice has a logit representation, with weights tilted toward incentive-relevant benchmark models. 

Proposition 4. Fix Q2 and let (x∗, μ ∗) solve (Px,μ ) in (22) . Suppose the roadmap con-straints are strictly feasible at x∗ in the relative interior of the simplex: there exists a full-support ˜μ ∈ ∆( Q2) such that G(x∗; ˜ μ, λ ) − k > max {U0, g q1 (x∗; λ)}. Then, μ∗ has full support and there exist multipliers η∗ ≥ 0 and β∗ ≥ 0 on (23) and (24) such that 

μ∗(q) ∝ μ0(q) exp 



ρ Sx∗ (q; λ, η ∗, β ∗) − Eq[h(x∗(y))] 

, (25) 

for every q ∈ Q2, where Sx(q; λ, η, β ) := η g q(x; λ) + β gq(x; λ) − gq1 (x; λ).

The function Sx in (25) is the model-specific incentive score under contract x.Specifically, the term gq(x; λ) is the agent’s within-model valuation under model q, while 

gq(x; λ) − gq1 (x; λ) is the within-model deterrence gap against the safe action. The mul-tipliers ( η∗, β ∗) are the shadow values of tightening the promise-keeping and incentive constraints in (22). Moreover, the term Eq[h(x∗(.))] is the expected wage bill under benchmark model q. Thus, (25) shows that the principal allocates prior weights opti-mally toward benchmarks that (i) most relax the binding incentive constraints (high Sx∗ )and (ii) make the induced contract cheaper in expectation (low Eq[h(x∗(y))]), where the strength of this allocation is governed by the organizational sensitivity parameter ρ.

## 8.2 Distrust both models and prior 

Thus far, we have assumed that the agent distrusts the communicated set of models Qa

but trusts the prior μa. Here, we discuss how to study settings where the agent distrusts the entire roadmap ( μa, Q a). This may reflect the attitude of scientists working in small labs or start-ups that do not yet have established track records. To capture this, let the agent’s distrust over Qa be represented by ARC as before, and let his distrust of μa be represented by a multiplier criterion with respect to a set Γ a of priors that the agent finds plausible for action a. Formally, combining these two constraints yields the criterion min 

> νa∈Γa

(

Eμa

"

min  

> p∈∆( Y)



Ep[x(y)] + 1

λDKL (p∥q)

#

+ 1

ξ DKL (νa∥μa)

)

, (26) 23 where λ, ξ > 0 and x ∈ RY . This decision criterion was originally proposed by Cerreia-Vioglio et al. (2025, Section 6.2) who refers to it as a “variational robust Bayesian” criterion. Notably, it was recently axiomatized by Maselli (2025, Corollary 3). Although the criterion (26) seems complex, it would only reinforce the breakthrough trap result (Theorem 1). This is because, to hedge against prior misspecification, the agent would select from Γ a a more pessimistic prior than the principal’s prior μa. This pessimism would lower the perceived value of innovation, requiring even larger incentives that the principal might not be able to afford, thus causing the incentive capacity to collapse faster. Notice also that this indicates that a version of the breakthrough trap holds for any variational-robust-Bayesian preference in Cerreia-Vioglio et al. (2025, eq. (37)) because Theorem 1 relies only on allowing the agent to learn about misspecification and likelihoods separately. More generally, however, the recursive representation and ap-plication of the criterion (26) or even Cerreia-Vioglio et al. (2025, eq. (37)) in repeated decision problems with learning remain open questions. 22 A promising approach to for-malize these results would be to extend our recursive formulation of ARC in Appendix A.1. This extension is beyond the scope of this paper, so we defer it for future research. 

## 8.3 Trust models but distrust prior 

This paper has focused on how to motivate an agent to innovate when he trusts the organization’s prior μa but is concerned that all models in Qa are misspecified. It is natural to wonder how to study the opposite setting, where the agent trusts Qa but distrusts μa. This would capture settings where the agent trusts that the true model is in Qa but is worried that the organization has misclassified it, i.e., μa is wrong. These settings reflect projects involving low uncertainty in the sense that the organization’s historical data correctly predicts the true model but somehow fails to classify it properly. 23 

This approach can be formalized in our robust-control framework using the criterion min 

> νa∈∆( Qa)

n

Eμa

Eq[x(y)]  + 1

ζ DKL (νa∥μa)

o

,

where ζ > 0 and x ∈ RY . To see that an agent with this preference trusts Qa, suppose μa

is a unit mass at some structured model q∗ ∈ Qa. Then, the above criterion becomes the expected utility criterion Eq∗ [x(y)], where the linearity in q∗ captures the agent’s trust in 

q∗. Thus, the variance of μa captures model ambiguity: the agent does not know which model in Qa is the true model. This is very different from ARC (3), where a unit-mass 

μa on q∗ reduces ARC to Hansen and Sargent’s (2001) multiplier criterion, which reflects 

> 22 A recent paper by Maccheroni et al. (2025) studies optimal updating for the criterion (26) in static settings. Notably, their Section 7 discusses how to extend their results to dynamic settings.
> 23 Hansen (2014, p. 947) refers to such settings as those where agents do not face model misspecification but instead face only: “ambiguity about which is the correct model among a family of alternatives.”

24 misspecification concerns about q∗, i.e., the agent fears that the true model is not in Qa.To get a better understanding of the criterion above, applying Dupuis and Ellis (1997, Proposition 1.4.2) to it yields a tractable functional form that resembles ARC (3): 

− 1

ζ log 



Eμa

e−ζEq [x(y)] 

.

Notice now that this criterion represents a smooth ambiguity preference with “constant ambiguity attitude,” where ζ > 0 the coefficient of ambiguity aversion (Klibanoff et al., 2005, Proposition 2). This preference has been used in static moral-hazard problems by Kellner (2015, 2017). An immediate result that this criterion fails to satisfy in our framework is Proposition 3, i.e., mean-preserving spreads reduce the principal’s profit. This happens because the agent fears ambiguity but not misspecification, so he prefers to know what the true model is in Qa, i.e., he prefers μa to be a unit mass. More generally, since this is a smooth ambiguity preference, future research can use Klibanoff et al. (2009) to obtain its recursive representation for repeated decision problems. Moreover, since the parameter ζ does not capture misspecification concerns, future research would also need to develop an appropriate updating rule, paralleling the LLR rule in Assumption 1. 

## 8.4 Infinite-horizon contracts 

This section summarizes key insights from the infinite-horizon extension of our framework in Appendix B. Recall γ > 0 in Assumption 1 and the best-fit KL discrepancy for innovation D∗ 

> 2

. Together, γ captures the agent-side: how much evidence translates into misspecification concerns. D∗ 

> 2

captures the roadmap-side: how well the organization’s models can approximate the true innovation outcome distribution. Now, below are three relevant types of agents based on how they update their misspecification concerns: 

• Lenient type: lim t→∞ λt = 0. At this extreme, the agent is too lenient in his evaluation of the roadmap’s statistical performance in the sense that he attributes too much of the unexplained evidence to sampling variability. In this case, the agent’s valuation converges to Manso’s (2011) expected utility. 

• Demanding type: lim t→∞ λt = + ∞. At this other extreme, if the empirical fre-quency does not quickly match the structured models, the agent grows suspicious of the roadmap, which leads to maxmin behavior by considering the worst-case scenario among all possible outcome distributions. 

• Statistically sophisticated type: lim t→∞ λt = D∗ 

> 2

/γ < +∞. This is the intermediate case, where the agent’s valuation converges to ARC with bounded misspecification concern, which is nonzero whenever there is misspecification, i.e., when D∗ 

> 2

> 0. 25 This classification of types is formally presented in Definition 5 (Observation 6). It reveals that long-run contractibility of continued innovation depends on the roadmap’s best fit 

D∗ 

> 2

and the agent’s sensitivity to misspecification γ. Even with unlimited data, if the roadmap is under-performing (high D∗ 

> 2

), then incentive capacity remains tight and there-fore breakthrough traps will persist in the long run. Thus, the two-period breakthrough trap in Section 5.2 is the finite-horizon reflection of a more general force: as evidence accumulates that the organization’s roadmap is misspecified, the level of misspecifica-tion concern of a sophisticated agent will converge to a nonzero level proportional to the roadmap’s best-fit KL discrepancy. This long-run phenomenon generates a persistent tightening of incentive capacity relative to Manso’s (2011) expected-utility benchmark. We refer to Appendix B for a more formal analysis of the infinite-horizon extension. 

## 8.5 Related Literature 

In classical moral-hazard problems, the principal and the agent are each aware of the true distribution of output associated with each level of effort. It is now widely recognized that this assumption is very strong, which naturally leads to the question of how it can be relaxed. As Miao and Rivera (2016, p. 1429) note: “Contracting problems involve at least two parties. Introducing ambiguity or robustness into such problems must consider which party faces ambiguity and what it is ambiguous about.” Many papers focus on the case where the principal faces ambiguity, not the agent—see Carroll (2019) for a survey. Here are two relevant papers in this literature. Carroll (2015) considers a maxmin principal who is averse to the ambiguity about the available actions, whereas the agent faces no ambiguity. Miao and Rivera (2016) study a continuous-time framework where the principal has a multiplier preference because she is concerned that the roadmap’s model is misspecified, whereas the agent trusts it. The main justification for this approach is that the principal contracts with an agent who “owns” a relevant technology. Notice that the approach above is the opposite of ours, where the agent faces ambi-guity, not the principal. This paper therefore fits in the literature pioneered by Lopomo et al. (2011). 24 The main justification in this literature is that the principal “owns” a relevant technology and contracts with a less knowledgeable agent (e.g., Lopomo et al., 2011; Kellner, 2015, 2017; D¨ utting et al., 2024). Unlike Lopomo et al. (2011) who assume the agent has a Bewley preference (which is incomplete), our agent is a bit more sophis- 

> 24 The most recent paper in this literature is D¨ utting et al. (2024), who assume a maxmin agent in static settings. There are many differences between our frameworks, but here are the most relevant ones. While they explore how principals can deliberately manufacture (payoff) ambiguity to punish deviations, we analyze how principals can manage inherent (model) ambiguity to motivate innovation. In their framework, ambiguity is a threat used to enforce compliance, whereas in our framework, ambiguity can be leveraged to reduce the agent’s exposure to idiosyncratic epistemic risk (Proposition 3). Alternatively, Kellner (2015, 2017) uses smooth ambiguity preferences on the agent-side in static settings (Section 8.3).

26 ticated because he can separate his trust in the organization’s prior from his concerns for misspecification. 25 In this sense, our framework is the first to introduce both concerns for misspecification and learning dynamics on the agent-side of moral-hazard problems. As noted before, we have in mind settings where the principal aims to motivate the agent to innovate in high-uncertainty environments (e.g., materials/drug discovery). On one hand, the principal is the designer or architect of the roadmap, so she trusts it. The intuition is that managers of large labs would trust their roadmaps because they oversee many scientists engaged in diverse innovative activities, giving them an aggregate sense of the uncertainty involved across different tasks. On the other hand, each scientist bears, individually, the epistemic risk present within their respective innovative tasks. In parallel to the two strands of literature discussed above, there is a “middle ground” pioneered by Ghirardato (1994), who allows both the principal and agent to face ambi-guity with Choquet preferences (Schmeidler, 1989). Our roadmap design contributes to this literature (Section 8.1). Thus, future research may help unify these three literatures. Our framework builds on the robust control literature to introduce misspecification concerns on the agent-side of moral-hazard problems. ARC is a variational preference (Maccheroni et al., 2006a) and was proposed by Cerreia-Vioglio et al. (2025, eq. (35)) but without a formal axiomatization. Lanzani (2025) then provided an axiomatic foundation for ARC and studied how robustness concerns evolve with data fit under misspecification. 

## 8.6 Conclusion 

We have characterized a new class of principal-agent problems where a sophisticated agent learns the value of innovation from observed data while being concerned that the models in the organization’s “roadmap” are misspecified. We identify a “breakthrough trap,” where early success can raise the agent’s endogenous misspecification concerns to the point that it renders continued innovation uncontractible. Thus, long-run innovation intensity is subject to an endogenous “speed limit,” forcing organizations into innovation cycles to manage both the agent’s effort and his trust in the roadmap. We then show that tolerance for early failure, screening, and post-success turnover can help prevent breakthrough traps. We also show that diversifying the roadmap insures the agent against concentrated misspecification. This paper therefore suggests that analyzing how uncertainty is framed and communicated within organizations is relevant for both theory and practice. Additional results can be found in our appendices. Appendix A solves the two-period contract, Appendix B formalizes the long-run analysis, and Online Appendices A and B examine how enlarging the outcome and action spaces after our main results. 

> 25 In a recent experimental study that separates attitudes toward ambiguity and misspecification, Aydogan et al. (2023) find evidence that people tend to be very averse to model misspecification.

27 A Appendix: Optimal Dynamic Contracts 

We formalize the recursive representation and solve the two-period contracting game. To align more closely with Maccheroni et al.’s (2006b) recursive representations, we will work throughout with the general case where the agent’s discount rate is denoted δ ∈ (0 , 1]. We thus rewrite the agent’s continuation values from Section 5.1 by explicitly using δ:

V2(y1; x2) := max  

> a2∈{ 1,2}

V2

 y1, a 2; x2(y1, ·), (27) 

V1(x1, x 2) := max  

> a1∈{ 1,2}

V1

 ∅, a 1; x1(·) + δV 2(·; x2). (28) 

## A.1 Recursive variational preferences 

This appendix formalizes the dynamic preference in (27)–(28) using Maccheroni et al. (2006b), and clarifies the meaning of “local” misspecification in the recursive ARC con-struction. Notably, this analysis is new in the decision-theory literature—it is the first forward-looking formulation of ARC because Lanzani (2025) assumes the agent is myopic. 

Event tree and information. Fix the two-period tree with outcome paths ω =(y1, y 2) ∈ Ω := Y × Y . Let ( Ft)3 

> t=1

be the filtration generated by realized histories: 

F1 = {∅ , Ω} (before observing y1), F2 = σ(y1) (after observing y1), and F3 = σ(y1, y 2)(after observing y2). Thus, conditioning on F2 is equivalent to conditioning on the history 

h2 = y1. We evaluate continuation payoff vectors z : Y → R (in utility units) via the one-step variational operators Vt(·) in (8)–(9). This is the object to which Maccheroni et al. (2006b) attach one-period-ahead ambiguity indices. Recall that in Section 5.1, the prior has full support on Q2, and all models in Q2 and q1 have full support on Y .

Local misspecification. Recall the one-step-ambiguity index κt(ht, a, π ) defined Section 5.1. When a = 2 (innovation) is chosen at a history ht, Nature is allowed to distort the outcome distribution within each structured model q ∈ Q2, but is not allowed to distort the marginal μt(ht) on Q2 (formally, κt(ht, 2; π) = + ∞ unless πQ2 = μt(ht)). This is the precise meaning of “local” misspecification in our dynamic ARC setting: the principal-communicated aggregate classification μt(ht) is treated as trusted, while robustness operates only at the model-by-model (likelihood) level, with intensity λt(ht). 

KL decomposition. Fix ht and write μ := μt(ht) and π0(q, y ) := μ(q) q(y). If a joint distribution π ∈ ∆( Q2 × Y ) satisfies πQ2 = μ, then the KL cost in (9) decomposes as 26 

DKL (π∥π0) = X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) DKL 

 π(·| q) ∥ q(·), (29) where π(·| q) denotes the Y -conditional of π given q. Note that eq. (29) is the formal statement that the penalty is local: it is an average of within-model likelihood distortions.            

> 26 To see this, expand log π(q,y )
> μ(q)q(y)= log π(q)
> μ(q)+ log π(y|q)
> q(y), sum under π, and use πQ2=μ(Lemma 8).

28 One-period-ahead ambiguity indices. To connect directly to Maccheroni et al. (2006b), it is convenient to express the one-step problems (8)–(9) as minimizations over the one-period-ahead marginals on the next observed outcome y ∈ Y . For t ∈ { 1, 2},history ht, and r ∈ ∆( Y ), define the one-period-ahead ambiguity indices: 

• If a = 1, set 

τt(ht, 1; r) := κt(ht, 1; r) = 1

λt(ht) DKL (r∥q1).

• If a = 2, set 

τt(ht, 2; r) := inf 

n

κt(ht, 2; π) : π ∈ ∆( Q2 × Y ), π Y = r

o

,

where πY is the marginal of π on Y (and feasibility already enforces πQ2 = μt(ht)). Since z(·) depends only on the realized outcome y, the inner minimizations in (8)–(9) can be equivalently written as 

Vt(ht, 1; z) = min  

> r∈∆( Y)

n X 

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + τt(ht, 1; r)

o

, (30) 

Vt(ht, 2; z) = min  

> r∈∆( Y)

n X 

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + τt(ht, 2; r)

o

− k. (31) Thus, the family {τt(·, ·; ·)}t=1 ,2 is the object called a one-period-ahead ambiguity index 

in Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Proposition 2). 

Induced two-period dynamic ambiguity index. Fix any history-dependent action plan α = ( a1, σ 2), with σ2 : Y → { 1, 2} (Appendix A.3, Definition 4). A two-period distortion under α consists of (i) a one-step marginal r1 ∈ ∆( Y ) for y1, and (ii) a collection of one-step marginals {r2(y1) ∈ ∆( Y )}y1∈Y for y2 after each y1. The induced dynamic ambiguity index associated with the plan α = ( a1, σ 2) is the sum of one-step costs: 

c1

 r1, {r2(y1)}y1∈Y

 := δ X

> y1∈Y

r1(y1) τ2(y1, σ 2(y1); r2(y1)) + τ1(∅, a 1; r1) , (32) where we recall that δ ∈ (0 , 1] is the agent’s discount rate. Notice that eq. (32) is the two-period “rectangular/no-gain” recursion in Maccheroni et al. (2006b, eq. (11)): any feasible collection of one-step distortions can be pasted across histories, and total penalty is the discounted present value of contemporaneous penalties, with discount rate 

δ ∈ (0 , 1]. By Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Theorem 2), such one-step ambiguity indices generate a recursive ambiguity index, and by their Theorem 1, the resulting variational preference is dynamically consistent. This intuition is formalized below. 

Proposition 5. Fix any history-dependent action plan α = ( a1, σ 2) (Definition 4). Con-sider the induced preference over two-period payoff processes (x1, x 2) obtained by evaluat-ing continuation payoff vectors node-by-node using the one-step certainty equivalents 

z 7 → V t

 ht, α t(ht); z for t ∈ { 1, 2},

29 where α1(∅) := a1 and α2(y1) := σ2(y1). Then, this plan-induced preference is a recur-sive variational preference in the sense of Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Theorem 2), with one-period-ahead ambiguity indices {τt(ht, α t(ht); ·)} given in (30) –(31) . In particular, it is dynamically consistent in the sense of Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Theorem 1). Conse-quently, the agent’s optimal continuation values in (27) –(28) are obtained by backward induction from these dynamically consistent conditional preferences. 

All proofs from the appendix are relegated to Appendix D. 

## A.2 Subgame-perfect implementation 

Since the contract can condition on the intermediate outcome y1, the t = 2 decision problems separate across histories. In particular, whether innovation can be induced after a given y1 is governed solely by the node-specific state ( μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) and the local continuation utility vector x2(y1, ·). This is formalized below. 

Proposition 6. Fix any dynamic contract (x1, x 2). At t = 2 , conditional on y1, a2 = 2 

is (weakly) optimal if and only if M  μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·) ≥ k. In particular, a2 = 2 

is implementable after history y1 if and only if there exists a (finite) vector x(·) : Y →

R such that M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x(·)) ≥ k; equivalently, either C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) > k , or 

C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) = k and the supremum defining C in (14) is attained. 

We are now ready to define the notion of subgame-perfect implementability of a continuation policy σ2 : Y → { 1, 2}.

Definition 3. A continuation policy σ2 is subgame-perfect implementable if there exists a dynamic contract (x1, x 2) such that, in the induced subgame-perfect equilibrium under the preference in Section A.1, the period-2 action satisfies a2(y1) = σ2(y1) for all y1 ∈ Y .

Proposition 7. A continuation policy σ2 is subgame-perfect implementable if and only if, for every y1 ∈ Y with σ2(y1) = 2 , there exists a finite continuation utility vector 

x(·) : Y → R such that M  μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x(·) ≥ k. Equivalently, for each such y1, either 

C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) > k , or C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) = k and the supremum defining C is attained. In particular, prescribing a2 = 1 at a node is always implementable. 

Checking the capacity. The next bound and limit are convenient sufficient conditions for node-by-node feasibility in Proposition 6. 

Observation 2. Fix λ > 0 and μ ∈ ∆( Q2) with μ(qH ) = m and μ(qL) = 1 − m. Then, 

C(μ, λ ) ≥ 1

λ



m log pθH

+ (1 − m) log pθL



.

Corollary 5. Let (μF , λ F ) := ( μ2(·| y1 = 0) , λ 2(0)) . Then, lim θL↓0 C(μF , λ F ) = + ∞. In particular, for any fixed k > 0 there exists ¯θL ∈ (0 , p ) such that for all θL ∈ (0 , ¯θL),

C(μF , λ F ) ≥ k, so a2 = 2 is implementable after y1 = 0 .

30 A.3 Solving the two-period game 

This appendix completes the two-period analysis by (i) characterizing the agent’s t = 1 best response given an arbitrary continuation contract, and (ii) reducing the principal’s problem to a finite comparison over implementable action plans .

Definition 4 (Dynamic action plan) . An action plan is α = ( a1, σ 2) where a1 ∈ { 1, 2}

and σ2 : Y → { 1, 2} is a continuation policy. We say that a contract (x1, x 2) subgame-perfectly implements α if there exists a subgame-perfect equilibrium in which the agent chooses a1 at t = 1 and, after each history y1 ∈ Y , chooses a2 = σ2(y1) at t = 2 .

Proposition 8. Fix a dynamic contract (x1, x 2) and the agent’s discount rate δ ∈ (0 , 1] .Let V2(·; x2) be the continuation value defined by (27) . Then, at t = 1 , a1 = 2 is (weakly) optimal if and only if 

M  μ1, λ 1; x1(·) + δ V 2(·; x2) ≥ k, (33) 

where M is defined in (14) .

The principal’s objective. As in the static analysis, we evaluate expected wage costs under the mean model. For a given plan α = ( a1, σ 2), let ¯ qα 

> 1

∈ ∆( Y ) denote the mean one-step distribution of y1 under a1, and let ¯ qα 

> 2

(·| y1) ∈ ∆( Y ) denote the mean one-step distribution of y2 under σ2(y1). 27 The principal’s expected profit under ( x1, x 2) and induced equilibrium actions is 

E [ y1 + R2y2] − X

> y1∈Y

¯qα 

> 1

(y1) h x1(y1) − X

> y1∈Y

X

> y2∈Y

¯qα 

> 1

(y1)¯ qα 

> 2

(y2|y1) h x2(y1, y 2), (34) where R2 = 1 + ( A − 1) 1{a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2 } is the scale-up multiplier (Section 5.1). 

Assumption 2 (No intertemporal arbitrage) . Let h = u−1 and δ ∈ (0 , 1] be the agent’s discount rate. Define the one-sided derivatives 

h′

> +

(x) := lim 

> t↓0

h(x + t) − h(x)

t , h′−(x) := lim 

> t↓0

h(x) − h(x − t)

t ,

and define the (extended) asymptotic marginal costs 

h′(+ ∞) := lim  

> x→+∞

h′

> +

(x) ∈ (0 , ∞], h′(−∞ ) := lim  

> x→−∞

h′−(x) ∈ [0 , ∞].

Assume 

δ h ′(+ ∞) > h ′(−∞ ). (35) Assumption 2 is a mild condition that rules out an intertemporal transfer arbitrage: holding the agent’s discounted utility fixed, the principal cannot drive expected wage costs to −∞ by shifting promised utility from period 2 to period 1 (or vice versa). Since 

h is strictly convex, h′(+ ∞) > h ′(−∞ ) holds, so Assumption 2 holds when δ = 1.               

> 27 In the baseline two-point environment of Section 5.1, if a1= 2 then ¯ qα
> 1(1) = mθ H+ (1 −m)θL, and if σ2(y1) = 2 then ¯ qα
> 2(1 |y1) = P
> q∈Q2μ2(q|y1)q(1); if σ2(y1) = 1 then ¯ qα
> 2(1 |y1) = p.

31 Proposition 9 (Optimal dynamic contracts) . Suppose Assumption 2 holds. Fix any action plan α = ( a1, σ 2) that is subgame-perfectly implementable in the sense of Definition 4, and suppose ¯qα 

> 1

(y1) > 0 for all y1 ∈ Y and ¯qα 

> 2

(y2|y1) > 0 for all y1, y 2 ∈ Y . Consider the principal’s problem of choosing a contract (x1, x 2) that subgame-perfectly implements 

α and satisfies the participation constraint V1(x1, x 2) ≥ U0, to maximize (34) . Then an optimal contract exists, and there is an optimal contract (x∗

> 1

, x ∗

> 2

) satisfying: (i) Binding IR. V1(x∗

> 1

, x ∗

> 2

) = U0.(ii) Binding t = 2 IC at innovation nodes. For each y1 with σ2(y1) = 2 ,

M  μ2(·| y1), λ 2(y1); x∗

> 2

(y1, ·) = k. 

(iii) Full insurance at safe nodes. For each y1 with σ2(y1) = 1 , the continuation utility is constant across y2, i.e., x∗

> 2

(y1, y 2) = x∗

> 2

(y1, y ′

> 2

) for all y2, y ′ 

> 2

∈ Y .

Corollary 6 (Optimal plan reduces to a finite comparison) . The principal’s two-period problem admits an optimal solution and can be solved by comparing a finite set of im-plementable action plans α = ( a1, σ 2). For each implementable plan α, let Π( α) denote the maximal profit over contracts implementing α as in (34) . Then, an optimal dynamic contract implements some α∗ ∈ arg max α Π( α).

Proposition 9 isolates the two pieces of structure that are robust to dynamic settings: (i) full rent extraction by translation invariance (IR binds), and (ii) at each history-contingent node where innovation is prescribed, the principal does not pay for slack local incentives (the local t = 2 inequality binds). The only nodes at which the principal strictly insures are those at which the plan prescribes safety, because risk at such nodes increases expected wage costs under ¯ qα 

> 2

(·| y1) = q1 without affecting any incentive margin. 

# B Appendix: Infinite-Horizon Contracts 

This appendix explores the infinite-horizon extension of Section 5: the history-dependent continuation operator that governs whether innovation can be sustained by incentives after informative histories. The two-period analysis identifies a breakthrough trap when the post-success misspecification concern tightens continuation incentives enough to make the policy “continue innovation after success” uncontractible. The purpose of this ap-pendix is to (i) provide a long-run benchmark for that continuation incentive environment under sustained play, and (ii) give a formal bridge from convergence of the robustness state ( μt, λ t) to convergence of the entire continuation evaluation. 

Outline. Appendix B.1 characterizes the long-run limit of the one-step ARC operator 

x 7 → G a(x; μt, λ t) along histories with an eventual constant action. The results pin down 32 whether long-run continuation incentives converge to Manso’s (2011) expected-utility benchmark, to a worst-case criterion, or to an interior ARC limit. These results follow directly from existing results in Lanzani (2025) and are easier because of our finiteness as-sumptions on outcomes and models. The novelty is in Appendix B.2, where we show that when the state stabilizes locally along continuation contingencies, the induced infinite-horizon recursion converges along the realized history to the recursion associated with the limiting operator. This justifies using the limiting operator as a long-run approximation for incentive provision. 

## B.1 Long-run continuation incentives 

This appendix formalizes the infinite-horizon version of the learning environment in Sec-tion 5.1. Throughout, Y and A are finite. The main object of interest is the continuation operator x 7 → G a(x; μt, λ t), because it is the node-by-node object that enters the imple-mentability inequalities through M (·) and the incentive capacity C(μ, λ ) in eq. (14). 

Global structured models. A (global) structured model is a vector q = ( qa)a∈A ∈

∆( Y )A, where qa is the (one-step) outcome distribution under action a. Let Q ⊂ ∆( Y )A

be finite and assume that qa(y) > 0 for all q ∈ Q, a ∈ A, and y ∈ Y . The agent has an initial second-order belief μ1 ∈ ∆( Q) with full support. 

Objective data-generating process. Let p∗ = ( p∗

> a

)a∈A ∈ ∆( Y )A denote the true model. Conditional on the action path ( at)t≥1, outcomes are conditionally independent and identically distributed (iid). 28 

Public vs. private histories. The principal observes only outcomes, while the agent observes both outcomes and his own past actions. Accordingly, we distinguish: 

• Public/contractible history: s1 = ∅ and St := Y t−1 for t ≥ 2, with st = ( y1, . . . , y t−1) ∈

St.

• Private/agent history: h1 = ∅ and Ht := ( A×Y )t−1 for t ≥ 2, with ht = ( a1, y 1, . . . , a t−1, y t−1) ∈

Ht.Let χt : Ht → St be the public projection χt(ht) := ( y1, . . . , y t−1). Contracts must be measurable w.r.t. St (not Ht), whereas Bayesian updating of ( μt, λ t) is measurable w.r.t. Ht. When no confusion arises, we write χ(ht) instead of χt(ht). At each t ≥ 1, the action at is chosen after observing the private history ht = ( a1, y 1, . . . , a t−1, y t−1) ∈ Ht

but before observing yt. Thus, at is Ft−1-measurable, where Ft := σ(a1, y 1, . . . , a t, y t). 

> 28 This is the standard assumption in the misspecified learning literature (e.g., Lanzani, 2025).

33 Bayesian updating of μ. Given a private history ht = ( a1, y 1, . . . , a t−1, y t−1) ∈ Ht,define the likelihood of q ∈ Q, Lt(q; ht) := Qt−1  

> τ=1

qaτ (yτ ). For all t, ht, and q ∈ Q, the posterior belief is given by Bayes rule: 

μt(q|ht) ∝ μ1(q)Lt(q; ht). (36) 

One-step ARC aggregator. For any action a ∈ A, posterior μ ∈ ∆( Q), intensity 

λ > 0, and continuation payoff vector x : Y → R (already in utility units), define 

Ga(x; μ, λ ) := X

> q∈Q

μ(q) gqa (x; λ), gqa (x; λ) := − 1

λ log 

 X 

> y∈Y

qa(y)e−λx (y)



.

Thus, Ga(x; μ, λ ) is the agent’s valutation of the continuation payoff x if he chooses action 

a at a node with robustness state ( μ, λ ). In the contracting problem, the principal selects continuation vectors x to satisfy incentive constraints, so the long-run behavior of the operator x 7 → G a(x; μt, λ t) determines the long-run feasibility of continued innovation. 

Best-fitting models. For each action a ∈ A, define the set of KL-best-fit models 

Qa := arg min  

> q∈Q

DKL 

 p∗

> a

∥qa

, (37) which is nonempty since Q is finite. The next result is the standard result showing that Bayesian posteriors concentrate on KL minimizers, which building on the logic of Berk (1966). Lanzani (2025) already proves more general versions of it, so we omit its proof. 

Observation 3 (Posterior concentration on KL-best fits) . Fix a ∈ A and suppose that along a realized path there exists T < ∞ such that at = a for all t ≥ T . Then, under the true distribution induced by p∗, the following hold almost surely: (a) For any q / ∈ Q a and any ˆq ∈ Q a, lim t→∞ 1 

> t

log μt(q|ht) 

> μt(ˆ q|ht)

= −(DKL (p∗

> a

∥qa)−DKL (p∗

> a

∥ˆqa)) <

0. In particular, μt(q|ht) → 0 for every q / ∈ Q a.(b) Every subsequential limit ν of (μt(·| ht)) t≥1 satisfies supp( ν) ⊆ Q a. If Qa = {ˆq} is a singleton then μt(·| ht) → δˆq.(c) If there exists q ∈ Q with qa = p∗

> a

, then Qa = {q ∈ Q : qa = p∗

> a

} and every subsequen-tial limit ν satisfies supp( ν) ⊆ { q ∈ Q : qa = p∗

> a

}.

Under an eventually constant action a, the long-run posterior does not “select the truth” unless the model class Q is correctly specified. Instead, beliefs concentrate on the subset Qa of structured models that best approximate the data in terms of KL divergence. Thus, even with unlimited data, the relevant “long-run roadmap” is the set of best-fitting structured models, not necessarily the true model. This matters for contracts because continuation incentives depend on the operator averaging gqa under μt, and the long-run averaging is over Qa.34 Misspecification evidence. As in the main text, we continue to assume that the set of unstructured alternatives is the full simplex ∆( Y )A (see, Lanzani, 2025, Section 5.1, p. 1351). Define the log-likelihood ratio (LLR) against all unstructured alternatives by LLR( ht, Q ) := − log max q∈Q

Qt−1  

> τ=1

qaτ (yτ )max p∈∆( Y )A

Qt−1  

> τ=1

paτ (yτ )

!

∀t, h t ∈ Ht. (38) Note that this the same LLR used in Section 5 (Assumption 1) when t = 2. 

Observation 4. Fix a ∈ A and suppose that along a realized path, there exists T < ∞

such that at = a for all t ≥ T . Then, under the true distribution induced by p∗,

lim 

> t→∞

LLR( ht, Q )

t = min  

> q∈Q

DKL 

 p∗

> a

∥qa

. (39) Define the limit above as D∗ 

> a

:= min q∈Q DKL (p∗

> a

∥qa). This KL discrepancy is a primitive measure of roadmap misspecification under action a: it is the best achievable approximation error within the organization’s structured models. In particular, when 

D∗ 

> a

> 0, misspecification evidence grows linearly in time along sustained play of a, so the long-run robustness state need not “wash out.” This quantity will play a key role below. 

Limits of the one-step operator. The next result presents the two operator limits that will anchor the long-run continuation environment. This is simple limit of the ARC criterion, which is used in Lanzani (2025), so we omit its proof. 

Observation 5. Fix a ∈ A, μ ∈ ∆( Q), and x : Y → R.(a) Vanishing concern . lim  

> λ↓0

Ga(x; μ, λ ) = X

> q∈Q

μ(q) X

> y∈Y

qa(y) x(y).(b) Worst-case . lim  

> λ↑∞

Ga(x; μ, λ ) = min  

> y∈Y

x(y).

Long-run robustness types. For sequences ( at), (bt) with bt > 0, we write at = o(bt)to mean at/b t → 0 as t → ∞ . We follow Lanzani (2025) by classifying the agent’s types depending on how he updates his misspecification concerns over time. 

Definition 5. Let Λ : S

> t≥1

(A × Y )t−1 → (0 , ∞) be a rule and set λt(ht) := Λ( ht). Then, (a) The rule Λ is lenient if 

Λ( ht) = o

LLR( ht, Q )

t



for every history sequence (ht)t≥1.

(b) The rule Λ is demanding if 

o Λ( ht) = LLR( ht, Q )

t for every history sequence (ht)t≥1.

35 (c) Fix γ > 0. The rule Λ is statistically sophisticated with scale γ if 

Λ( ht) = LLR( ht, Q )

γt for all t ≥ 1 and all ht.

The next result summarizes the limiting implications of each type above. It follows immediately from the proof of Lanzani (2025, Theorem 2), so we omit its proof. 

Observation 6. Fix a ∈ A and suppose that along a realized path there exists T < ∞

such that at = a for all t ≥ T . Then, under the true distribution induced by p∗, the following hold almost surely: (a) Belief support. Every subsequential limit ν of (μt(·| ht)) t≥1 satisfies supp( ν) ⊆ Q a.(b) Limit of λt. Let D∗ 

> a

:= min q∈Q DKL (p∗

> a

∥qa), which equals the limit in (39) . Then: (i) If Λ is lenient and D∗ 

> a

> 0, then λt(ht) → 0.(ii) If Λ is demanding and D∗ 

> a

> 0, then λt(ht) → +∞.(iii) If Λ is statistically sophisticated with scale γ, then λt(ht) → D∗

> a

/γ .If D∗ 

> a

= 0 then LLR( ht, Q )/t → 0, and under a lenient rule λt(ht) → 0.(c) Limiting one-step preference. Fix any x : Y → R and any subsequential limit ν from part (a) . Along the same subsequence, 

Ga(x; μt(·| ht), λ t(ht)) −→ 

X

> q∈Q

ν(q) X

> y∈Y

qa(y) x(y), lenient with D∗ 

> a

> 0,

min  

> y∈Y

x(y), demanding with D∗ 

> a

> 0,

X

> q∈Q

ν(q) gqa

 x; D∗

> a

/γ , statistically sophisticated. 

In Section 5, continued innovation is implementable at a node if and only if the prin-cipal can choose a continuation vector x that makes the innovation operator sufficiently favorable, i.e., that yields M (μ, λ ; x) ≥ k and hence C(μ, λ ) ≥ k in eq. (14). Observation 6 provides a long-run benchmark for this feasibility problem under sustained play of a fixed action. (i) Under lenient rules, misspecification concerns vanish and continuation incentives converge to the expected-utility environment of Manso (2011); (ii) under de-manding rules, continuation evaluation collapses to a maxmin criterion, producing the tightest possible continuation incentives; (iii) under statistically sophisticated rules, mis-specification concerns converges to an interior level λ∞ = D∗

> a

/γ whenever D∗ 

> a

> 0, in which case, endogenous misspecification concerns generate a persistent wedge relative to the expected-utility benchmark. Intuitively, D∗ 

> a

measures how well the firm’s structured roadmap can approximate the data under action a.36 Connection to the breakthrough trap. Recall that the two-period breakthrough trap in Section 5 arises when a favorable intermediate outcome generates sufficiently strong misspecification evidence that the resulting ( μ2, λ 2) makes continued innovation uncon-tractible. The discussion above shows how to interpret this finite-horizon mechanism through the lens of long-run limits: when sustained innovation has D∗ 

> 2

> 0 and robust-ness is updated in a statistically sophisticated way, the continuation environment con-verges to an interior robust benchmark rather than to expected utility. The breakthrough trap can therefore be viewed as an early manifestation of a more general epistemic force: endogenous misspecification concerns can generate persistent tightness of continuation incentives, even as data accumulates in the long run. 

## B.2 Limiting Recursive Preference 

We provide a bridge from convergence of the state ( μt(ht), λ t(ht)) to convergence of the agent’s induced recursive continuation values. This is the infinite-horizon analogue of the backward-induction logic in Section 5: when the local state stabilizes along continuation contingencies, the entire dynamically consistent evaluation of future incentives becomes asymptotically time-homogeneous. To stay consistent with Section 5, let A = {1, 2}.

Extended domain. Let R+ := [0 , +∞]. Fix a metric d on R+ such that: (i) ( R+, d ) is compact; (ii) the topology induced by d on [0 , +∞) is the subspace topology inherited from the standard Euclidean metric; (iii) for any sequence ( λn) in [0 , +∞), λn → +∞ if and only if d(λn, +∞) → 0. For example, the following metric satisfies (i)–(iii): 

d(λ, λ ′) := arctan( λ) − arctan( λ′) , arctan(+ ∞) := π

2 .

Continuous extension. For q ∈ ∆( Y ) and λ > 0, recall (12). Extend gq(·; λ) to λ ∈ R+:

gq(x; 0) := X

> y∈Y

q(y)x(y), gq(x; + ∞) := min  

> y∈Y

x(y). (40) Define the one-step ARC aggregator for innovation by the same formula as (13) for 

λ > 0, and extend it to λ ∈ R+ via (40): G(x; μ, λ ) := P 

> q∈Q2

μ(q) gq(x; λ), for ( μ, λ ) ∈

∆( Q2) × R+. Define also the action-contingent one-step operators (with c(1) = 0 and 

c(2) = k as in Section 5.1) by G1(x; μ, λ ) := gq1 (x; λ) and G2(x; μ, λ ) := G(x; μ, λ ).

Infinite-horizon recursion. Let S1 = ∅ and St := Y t−1 for t ≥ 2 denote public (observable) histories, and let H1 = ∅ and Ht := ( {1, 2} × Y )t−1 for t ≥ 2 denote private (agent) histories. For each t ≥ 1, let χt : Ht → St be the public projection 37 χt(ht) = ( y1, . . . , y t−1). Then, a (utility-space) infinite-horizon dynamic contract is a bounded sequence ( xt)t≥1 with maps 

xt : St × Y → R, sup 

> t≥1

sup 

> st∈St

sup 

> y∈Y

|xt(st, y )| < ∞.

Thus, transfers depend only on the public outcome history, as required by moral hazard. Given a history-dependent private state ( μt(ht), λ t(ht)) ∈ ∆( Q2) × R+, define con-tinuation values ( Wt)t≥1 on private histories by 

Wt(ht) = max 

> a∈{ 1,2}

n

Ga



y 7 → xt(χt(ht), y ) + δ W t+1 (ht, a, y ); μt(ht), λ t(ht)



− c(a)

o

, (41) where ( ht, a, y ) ∈ Ht+1 denotes the successor private history. 

Finite-horizon continuation contingencies. Fix a realized private history sequence (ht)t≥1 with h1 = ∅ and ht+1 = ( ht, a t, y t) ∈ Ht+1 for each t ≥ 1. For t ≥ 1 and an integer 

N ≥ 0, define the set of N -period continuation contingencies from ht by 

Ht,N (ht) := ˜ht+j ∈ Ht+j : 0 ≤ j ≤ N and ˜ht+j extends ht . (42) Since {1, 2} × Y is finite, Ht,N (ht) is a finite set for each ( t, N ). 

local uniform convergence of states. Assume there exists a pair ( μ∞, λ ∞) ∈ ∆( Q2)×

R+ such that for every fixed N ≥ 0, as t → ∞ ,sup  

> ˜h∈H t,N (ht)

∥μ|˜h|(˜h) − μ∞∥1 → 0, sup  

> ˜h∈H t,N (ht)

d λ|˜h|(˜h), λ ∞

 → 0. (43) Define G∞ 

> a

(x) := Ga(x; μ∞, λ ∞). We are now ready to state main result of this appendix. Recall that the constant δ ∈ (0 , 1] denotes the agent’s discount rate. 

Proposition 10. Assume δ ∈ (0 , 1) and sup t,s t,y |xt(st, y )| < ∞. Under (43) :(a) The recursion (41) admits a unique bounded solution (Wt)t≥1 on private histories. (b) Let (W ∞ 

> t

)t≥1 be the unique bounded solution of 

W ∞ 

> t

(ht) = max 

> a∈{ 1,2}

n

G∞

> a



y 7 → xt(χt(ht), y ) + δ W ∞

> t+1

(ht, a, y )



− c(a)

o

. (44) 

Then, 

Wt(ht) − W ∞ 

> t

(ht) −→ 0 as t → ∞ .

Proposition 10 connects convergence of the state ( μt, λ t) to convergence of the entire continuation evaluation relevant for incentive provision. We now present a mapping from the on-path limits in Observations 3–6 to the local uniform convergence required by (43). 

Corollary 7. Suppose that along the realized path there exists T < ∞ such that at = 2 

for all t ≥ T . Assume the KL-best-fit set for innovation is a singleton, i.e., Q2 = {ˆq}.Given γ > 0, let λt(ht) = LLR( ht, Q )/(γt ) for all t, h t. Then, under the true distribution 

38 induced by p∗, (43) holds with 

μ∞ = δˆq, λ∞ = D∗

> 2

γ , D∗ 

> 2

:= min  

> q∈Q

DKL (p∗

> 2

∥q2),

so Proposition 10 applies. 

We provide the details of Corollary 7 and its proof in Online Appendix C. Con-dition (43) asks that, after enough learning, the state is insensitive to any fixed finite-horizon perturbation of future actions and outcomes. The belief component satisfies this because posterior odds can change only by a bounded likelihood-ratio factor over N

periods (Lemma 13). The robustness component satisfies this because the statistically sophisticated λt is an average log-likelihood statistic, and adding N periods changes the normalized LLR by at most order (log t)/t uniformly (Lemma 14). Thus, the stronger local uniformity in (43) follows from the weaker on-path limits in Observations 3–6 un-der a natural uniqueness condition on the innovation environment. Proposition 10 then implies that, in the long run, the agent evaluates continuation contracts as if he had a time-invariant operator G∞ 

> a

(·). This is the formal sense in which the infinite-horizon limits in Appendix B.1 provide a long-run benchmark for the contractibility of innovation. 

# C Appendix: Proofs for Main Text 

This appendix collects the proofs of all the results stated in the main text. 

## C.1 Proof of Proposition 1 

C.1.1 Proof of Proposition 1.1 Lemma 2 (Basic properties of Fa). For each action a:(i) Fa is continuously differentiable on (−∞ , ∞)Y and continuous on (−∞ , ∞)Y .(ii) Fa is strictly increasing in each coordinate x(y).(iii) Fa is concave on (−∞ , ∞)Y .(iv) For every x and y ∈ Y ,

∂F a(x)

∂x (y) = Eμa

"

q(y)e−λx (y)

P 

> z∈Y

q(z)e−λx (z)

#

=: πay (x), (45) 

where πay (x) > 0 and P 

> y∈Y

πay (x) = 1 .Proof of Lemma 2. Fix a throughout. 39 Step 1: properties of Gq. For fixed q ∈ Qa define 

Gq(x) := − 1

λ log 

 X 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y)



, x ∈ RY .

Concavity. Let x, y ∈ RY and t ∈ [0 , 1]. Then 

X

> j∈Y

q(j)e−λ(tx (j)+(1 −t)y(j)) = X

> j∈Y

q(j) e−λx (j)t e−λy (j)1−t.

By the weighted arithmetic–geometric (or H¨ older) inequality for non-negative numbers 

aj , b j with weights q(j), P 

> j

q(j)atj b1−tj ≤   P  

> j

q(j)aj

t  P  

> j

q(j)bj

1−t. Apply this with 

aj = e−λx (j) and bj = e−λy (j) to obtain 

X

> j

q(j)e−λ(tx (j)+(1 −t)y(j)) ≤ X

> j

q(j)e−λx (j)

!t X

> j

q(j)e−λy (j)

!1−t

.

Taking logarithms and multiplying by −1/λ < 0 reverses the inequality, so 

Gq(tx + (1 − t)y) ≥ tG q(x) + (1 − t)Gq(y).

Thus, Gq is concave. 

Monotonicity and differentiability. Write Sq(x) := P 

> z∈Y

q(z)e−λx (z). Then 

∂G q(x)

∂x (y) = − 1

λ · 1

Sq(x) · ∂S q(x)

∂x (y) = − 1

λ · 1

Sq(x) ·   − λq (y)e−λx (y) = q(y)e−λx (y)

P 

> z∈Y

q(z)e−λx (z) .

In particular, this derivative is strictly positive for all y because q(y) > 0 by full support and e−λx (y) > 0. Continuity of Gq and of its partial derivatives follows from the continuity of the exponential and the denominator. 

Step 2: pass from Gq to Fa. By (3), for any x, Fa(x) = Eμa [Gq(x)] − c(a). Since each 

Gq is concave and an expectation of concave functions is concave, Fa is concave. Since each Gq is strictly increasing in each coordinate, so is Fa (averaging preserves strict inequalities). Differentiability of Fa on ( −∞ , ∞)Y and the gradient formula (45) follow by differentiating under the expectation sign, which is justified because Qa is finite and the argument is bounded between 0 and 1. Finally, (45) defines a vector πa(x) with strictly positive coordinates that sum to 1: 

X

> y∈Y

πay (x) = Eμa

" X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y)

P 

> z∈Y

q(z)e−λx (z)

#

= Eμa [1] = 1 ,

which completes the proof. 

Proof of Proposition 1.1. Define the function f : RY → R by f (x) := P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y) h(x(y)) .

Step 1: Xa∗ is closed. By Lemma 2(i), each Fa is continuous on RY . Hence, the sets 

{x ∈ RY : Fa∗ (x) ≥ U0} and {x ∈ RY : Fa∗ (x) − Fa(x) ≥ 0} are closed, and so is their finite intersection Xa∗ .40 Step 2: a feasible sublevel set is compact. Pick any x0 ∈ Xa∗ (nonempty by assump-tion) and set C0 := f (x0). Consider the nonempty sublevel set ˜Xa∗ := Xa∗ ∩ { x ∈ RY : f (x) ≤ C0}.

We show ˜Xa∗ is bounded by establishing coordinatewise lower and upper bounds. 

(a) lower bounds. Fix y ∈ Y . Since Qa∗ is finite and each q ∈ Qa∗ has full support on Y ,define qmin (y) := min q∈Qa∗ q(y) > 0. Fix any x ∈ Xa∗ and any q ∈ Qa∗ . Then, 

X

> z∈Y

q(z)e−λx (z) ≥ q(y)e−λx (y) ≥ qmin (y)e−λx (y).

Taking logarithms and multiplying by −1/λ < 0 yields 

− 1

λ log X

> z∈Y

q(z)e−λx (z)

!

≤ x(y) − 1

λ log qmin (y).

Taking expectation over q ∈ Qa∗ under μa∗ and subtracting c(a∗) gives 

Fa∗ (x) ≤ x(y) − 1

λ log qmin (y) − c(a∗).

Since x ∈ Xa∗ satisfies IR, Fa∗ (x) ≥ U0, hence for every y ∈ Y and every x ∈ Xa∗ ,

x(y) ≥ Ly := U0 + c(a∗) + 1

λ log qmin (y). (46) 

(b) upper bounds on the sublevel set. Fix y ∈ Y and define the constant 

By := X 

> z∈Y\{ y}

¯qa∗ (z) h(Lz ),

which is finite because each Lz in (46) is finite and h is finite-valued on R. Now take any 

x ∈ ˜Xa∗ . By (46), x(z) ≥ Lz for all z, and since h is strictly increasing, h(x(z)) ≥ h(Lz )for all z̸ = y. Therefore, 

f (x) = ¯ qa∗ (y)h(x(y)) + X 

> z̸=y

¯qa∗ (z)h(x(z)) ≥ ¯qa∗ (y)h(x(y)) + By.

Since x ∈ ˜Xa∗ also satisfies f (x) ≤ C0, rearranging the above inequality yields ¯qa∗ (y)h(x(y)) ≤ C0 − By, so h(x(y)) ≤ C0 − By

¯qa∗ (y) .

Using that h is strictly increasing and invertible with inverse h−1 = u, we obtain 

x(y) ≤ Uy := u

C0 − By

¯qa∗ (y)



.

Define L := min y∈Y Ly and U := max y∈Y Uy. Then, every x ∈ ˜Xa∗ satisfies L ≤ x(y) ≤ U

for all y ∈ Y , hence ˜Xa∗ ⊂ [L, U ]Y and ˜Xa∗ is bounded. Finally, {x : f (x) ≤ C0} is closed because h is continuous and hence f is continuous, so ˜Xa∗ is the intersection of closed sets. Since Y is finite, ˜Xa∗ is closed and bounded in 

RY and therefore compact. 41 Step 3: Weierstrass. Since f is continuous and ˜Xa∗ is compact, f attains its minimum on ˜Xa∗ at some x⋆ ∈ ˜Xa∗ ⊂ Xa∗ . Since ˜Xa∗ is a sublevel set defined using x0 ∈ Xa∗ , any minimizer of f over Xa∗ must lie in ˜Xa∗ , so x⋆ also minimizes f over Xa∗ . This proves that the objective attains its minimum on Xa∗ .

C.1.2 Proof of Proposition 1.2 Lemma 3 (Translation invariance) . For ζ ∈ R, define Tζ (x) := x − ζ · 1, where 1 is the vector of ones in RY . Then, for all x ∈ RY and all a ∈ A, Fa(Tζ (x)) = Fa(x) − ζ. 

Proof of Lemma 3. Fix a and q ∈ Qa. For any x and ζ, P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ(x(y)−ζ) = eλζ P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y).

Taking logarithms and multiplying by −1/λ gives − 1 

> λ

log   P  

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ(x(y)−ζ) = −ζ − 

> 1
> λ

log   P  

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y). Taking the expectation of this identity over q with respect to 

μa and subtracting c(a) yields Fa(Tζ (x)) = Fa(x) − ζ.

Proof of Proposition 1.2. Let x⋆ be optimal. Suppose, toward a contradiction, that 

Fa∗ (x⋆) > U 0. Define δ := Fa∗ (x⋆) − U0 > 0 and set ˜ x := Tδ(x⋆) = x⋆ − δ · 1.

Feasibility. By Lemma 3, Fa∗ (˜ x) = Fa∗ (x⋆) − δ = U0, so IR holds at equality. For every a̸ = a∗, again by Lemma 3, 

Fa∗ (˜ x) − Fa(˜ x) =  Fa∗ (x⋆) − δ −  Fa(x⋆) − δ = Fa∗ (x⋆) − Fa(x⋆) ≥ 0,

so all IC constraints remain satisfied. Hence, ˜ x ∈ Xa∗ .

Strict improvement. Since h is strictly increasing and ¯ qa∗ (y) > 0 for all y,

X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(˜ x(y)) = X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x⋆(y) − δ) < X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x⋆(y)) ,

contradicting optimality of x⋆. Therefore, Fa∗ (x⋆) = U0 at any optimum. 

C.1.3 Proof of Proposition 1.3 

Proof of Proposition 1.3. Let a∗ /∈ arg min a∈A c(a) and let x⋆ solve ( Pxa∗ ). By Proposition 1.2, we have Fa∗ (x⋆) = U0. Suppose, toward a contradiction, that every IC constraint is strictly slack at x⋆: Fa∗ (x⋆) − Fa(x⋆) > 0 ∀a̸ = a∗. Since A is finite and each Fa is continuous, there exists ε > 0 such that Fa∗ (x⋆) − Fa(x⋆) ≥ 2ε ∀a̸ = a∗.

Step 1: construct a constant “full insurance” benchmark. Define x0 := ξ · 1, where ξ := 

U0 + c(a∗). For any action a and any q ∈ Qa, P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx 0(y) = P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λξ = e−λξ ,

so − 1 

> λ

log 

P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx 0(y)



= ξ. Taking expectation over q and subtracting c(a) yields 

Fa(x0) = ξ − c(a) = U0 + c(a∗) − c(a). In particular, Fa∗ (x0) = U0.

Step 2: move toward the constant benchmark. For t ∈ [0 , 1] define xt := (1 − t)x⋆ + tx 0.

By concavity of Fa∗ (Lemma 2) and Fa∗ (x0) above, 

Fa∗ (xt) ≥ (1 − t)Fa∗ (x⋆) + tF a∗ (x0) = (1 − t)U0 + tU 0 = U0,

42 so IR holds for all t ∈ [0 , 1]. Moreover, since xt → x⋆ as t ↓ 0 and each gap x 7 →

Fa∗ (x) − Fa(x) is continuous, there exists ¯ t ∈ (0 , 1] such that for all t ∈ [0 , ¯t] and all 

a̸ = a∗, Fa∗ (xt) − Fa(xt) ≥ ε, so all IC constraints remain satisfied. 

Step 3: reduce expected wage cost for small t > 0. First note that x⋆ cannot be constant, because if x⋆ ≡ ζ · 1, then by the constant-contract calculation above, Fa∗ (x⋆) − Fa(x⋆) = 

−(c(a∗) − c(a)) , so any cheaper action a with c(a) < c (a∗) would violate IC. Since a∗ is not least-cost, such a cheaper action exists. Hence, x⋆ is non-constant. Next, we claim that the constant benchmark is weakly cheaper than any IR-binding contract. Fix any x ∈ RY and q ∈ Qa∗ . By Jensen’s inequality (since z 7 → e−λz is convex), P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y) ≥ exp   − λ P 

> y∈Y

q(y)x(y). Taking logs and multiplying by 

−1/λ gives − 1 

> λ

log   P  

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y) ≤ P 

> y∈Y

q(y)x(y). Taking expectation over q with respect to μa∗ yields Fa∗ (x)+ c(a∗) ≤ P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)x(y). Applying this to x = x⋆ and using 

Fa∗ (x⋆) = U0 gives ξ = U0 + c(a∗) ≤ P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)x⋆(y). Since h is strictly increasing and strictly convex, Jensen’s inequality and the preceding bound imply 

X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x⋆(y)) ≥ h X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)x⋆(y)

!

≥ h(ξ),

and since x⋆ is non-constant, the first inequality is strict. Thus, P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x⋆(y)) >h(ξ) = P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x0(y)) . Now use strict convexity of h pointwise: for each y and each t ∈ (0 , 1), h(xt(y)) = h((1 − t)x⋆(y) + tx 0(y)) < (1 − t)h(x⋆(y)) + th (x0(y)) , with strict inequality for at least one y because x⋆ is not constant. Multiplying by ¯ qa∗ (y) and summing yields, for all t ∈ (0 , 1), 

X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(xt(y)) < (1 − t) X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x⋆(y)) + t X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x0(y)) .

Using the strict inequality above, the right-hand side is strictly less than P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x⋆(y)) for every t ∈ (0 , 1). Hence, for any t ∈ (0 , ¯t], the contract xt is feasible and strictly cheaper than x⋆, contradicting optimality of x⋆. Therefore, our assumption that all IC constraints are slack is false. Thus, there exists ˆ a̸ = a∗ such that Fa∗ (x⋆) − Fˆa(x⋆) = 0. 

## C.2 Proof of Observation 1 

Proof. We first verify feasibility of x0. For any a ∈ A and any q ∈ Qa,

X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx 0(y) = X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λξ = e−λξ =⇒ − 1

λ log X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx 0(y)

!

= ξ. 

Taking expectation over q with respect to μa and subtracting c(a) yields Fa(x0) = ξ −

c(a) = U0 + c(a∗) − c(a). Hence, Fa∗ (x0) = U0, so IR holds at equality. Moreover, since 

a∗ is least-cost, c(a) ≥ c(a∗) for all a, so Fa(x0) ≤ U0 = Fa∗ (x0), i.e., all IC constraints hold. 43 We now show optimality. Let x be any feasible contract. By Proposition 1.2 we may assume Fa∗ (x) = U0 (if IR were slack we can translate down by Lemma 3 to reduce cost). Fix q ∈ Qa∗ . Since z 7 → e−λz is convex, Jensen’s inequality implies 

X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y) ≥ exp −λ X

> y∈Y

q(y)x(y)

!

.

Taking logs and multiplying by −1/λ gives − 1 

> λ

log   P  

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y) ≤ P 

> y∈Y

q(y)x(y).

Taking expectation over q with respect to μa∗ yields Fa∗ (x) + c(a∗) ≤ P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)x(y).

Using Fa∗ (x) = U0 gives the mean-utility lower bound ξ = U0 + c(a∗) ≤ P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)x(y).

Since h is strictly increasing and strictly convex, Jensen’s inequality implies 

X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x(y)) ≥ h X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)x(y)

!

≥ h(ξ) = X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x0(y)) .

Thus, x0 minimizes the principal’s objective among feasible contracts. 

## C.3 Proof of Proposition 2 

Lemma 4. Fix a and x ∈ RY . If 0 < λ 1 < λ 2, then Fa(x; λ1) ≥ Fa(x; λ2). Moreover, if 

x is non-constant and every q ∈ Qa has full support, the inequality is strict. Proof of Lemma 4. Fix q ∈ Qa and define 

gq(x; λ) := − 1

λ log 

 X 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y)



. (47) Define the exponentially tilted probability (the “worst-case distortion” inside model q): 

pq,λ (y; x) := q(y)e−λx (y)

P 

> z∈Y

q(z)e−λx (z) . (48) A direct differentiation of (47) gives 

∂g q(x; λ)

∂λ = 1

λ2 log 

 X 

> y

q(y)e−λx (y)



+ 1

λ

X

> y

pq,λ (y; x)x(y).

Using the identity log 

 X 

> y

q(y)e−λx (y)



= X

> y

pq,λ (y; x) log q(y)e−λx (y)

pq,λ (y; x)= −λ X

> y

pq,λ (y; x)x(y) + X

> y

pq,λ (y; x) log q(y)

pq,λ (y; x),

we obtain ∂g q (x;λ) 

> ∂λ

= − 1

> λ2

P 

> y∈Y

pq,λ (y; x) log pq,λ (y;x) 

> q(y)

= − 1 

> λ2

DKL 

 pq,λ (·; x)∥q. Thus, we get 

∂λgq(x; λ) ≤ 0 for all λ > 0, so gq(x; λ) is weakly decreasing in λ.If q has full support, DKL (pq,λ ∥q) = 0 if and only if pq,λ (·; x) = q(·), which by (48) holds if and only if x is constant on Y . Hence, for non-constant x, ∂λgq(x; λ) < 0 and gq

44 is strictly decreasing. Finally, Fa(x; λ) = Eμa [gq(x; λ)] − c(a), so the same monotonicity (and strictness under the stated conditions) holds for Fa.

Proof of Proposition 2. Given differentiability in λ, ∂λ∆a∗,a (x; λ) = − 1

> λ2

 Ka∗ (x, λ ) −

Ka(x, λ ). The equivalence is immediate from the above: for fixed x and a̸ = a∗,

∂λ∆a∗,a (x; λ) ≤ 0 for all λ if and only if Ka∗ (x, λ ) ≥ Ka(x, λ ) for all λ.Assume now that the condition holds. Let 0 < λ 1 < λ 2 and take any x ∈ Xa∗ (λ2). Then, IR at λ2 means Fa∗ (x; λ2) ≥ U0. By Lemma 4, Fa∗ (x; λ1) ≥ Fa∗ (x; λ2) ≥ U0, so IR holds at λ1. Next, for any a̸ = a∗, IC at λ2 means ∆ a∗,a (x; λ2) ≥ 0. Since ∆ a∗,a (x; λ) is weakly decreasing in λ, we have ∆ a∗,a (x; λ1) ≥ ∆a∗,a (x; λ2) ≥ 0, so IC holds at λ1. Thus 

x ∈ Xa∗ (λ1), hence Xa∗ (λ2) ⊆ Xa∗ (λ1). The principal minimizes the same objective P 

> y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x(y)) over Xa∗ (λ). A smaller feasible set cannot yield a lower infimum, so Wa∗ (λ1) ≤ Wa∗ (λ2). Since revenues do not depend on λ, maximal profit is weakly decreasing in λ.

## C.4 Proof of Proposition 3 

Let’s start by stating the formal definition of a mean-preserving spread. Fix a ∈ A and let Ka := co( Qa) ⊂ ∆( Y ), co( ·) denotes the convex hull. For two probability measures 

ν, ˜ν on Ka, we say that ˜ ν is a mean-preserving spread of ν, denoted ˜ ν ⪰ ν, if: 

• R z d ˜ν(z) = R z dν (z), 

• R ϕ d ˜ν ≤ R ϕ dν for every continuous concave function ϕ : Ka → R.

Lemma 5. Fix a and x ∈ RY . If ˜μa ⪰ μa, then Fa(x; ˜ μa) ≥ Fa(x; μa).

Proof of Lemma 5. Fix a and x ∈ RY . Define the function ϕx : K → R by 

ϕx(q) := log 

 X 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y)



, q ∈ K = co( Qa).

The map q 7 → P 

> y

q(y)e−λx (y) is affine in q and strictly positive on K because e−λx (y) > 0for all y and q ∈ ∆( Y ). Since log is concave on (0 , ∞), the composition ϕx = log ◦(affine) is concave on the convex set K. By definition of Fa in eq. (3), we have 

Fa(x; μa) = − 1

λEμa [ϕx(q)] − c(a), Fa(x; ˜ μa) = − 1

λE˜μa [ϕx(q)] − c(a).

Since ˜ μa ⪰ μa and ϕx is continuous and concave on K, we have E˜μa [ϕx(q)] ≤ Eμa [ϕx(q)]. Multiplying by −1/λ < 0 reverses the inequality, yielding Fa(x; ˜ μa) ≥ Fa(x; μa). 

Proof of Proposition 3. Let Xa∗ (μ) denote the feasible set of contracts under the second-order prior profile μ (i.e., the set of x satisfying IR and all IC constraints), and similarly define Xa∗ (˜ μ). 45 Step 1: feasible-set inclusion. Fix any x ∈ Xa∗ (μ). IR under μ means Fa∗ (x; μa∗ ) ≥ U0.By Lemma 5, Fa∗ (x; ˜ μa∗ ) ≥ Fa∗ (x; μa∗ ) ≥ U0, so IR remains satisfied under ˜ μ. For any deviation a̸ = a∗, since ˜ μa = μa,

Fa∗ (x; ˜ μa∗ ) − Fa(x; ˜ μa) = Fa∗ (x; ˜ μa∗ ) − Fa(x; μa) ≥ Fa∗ (x; μa∗ ) − Fa(x; μa) ≥ 0,

so every IC constraint remains satisfied as well. Hence, x ∈ Xa∗ (˜ μ), so Xa∗ (μ) ⊆ Xa∗ (˜ μ). 

Step 2: weak wage-bill effect. The principal minimizes P 

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x(y)) over the feasi-ble set. Since Xa∗ (μ) ⊆ Xa∗ (˜ μ), enlarging the feasible set cannot increase the minimum. Thus, Wa∗ (˜ μ) ≤ Wa∗ (μ). 

Step 3: strict wage-bill effect. Assume there exists an optimal contract x⋆ ∈ Xa∗ (μ) such that Fa∗ (x⋆; ˜ μa∗ ) > F a∗ (x⋆; μa∗ ). Since x⋆ is optimal under μ, Proposition 1.2 implies 

Fa∗ (x⋆; μa∗ ) = U0. Let δ := Fa∗ (x⋆; ˜ μa∗ ) − Fa∗ (x⋆; μa∗ ) > 0 and define the translated contract ˆ x := Tδ(x⋆) = x⋆ −δ·1. By Lemma 3, for every action a, Fa(ˆ x; ˜ μa) = Fa(x⋆; ˜ μa)−

δ. In particular, Fa∗ (ˆ x; ˜ μa∗ ) = Fa∗ (x⋆; ˜ μa∗ ) − δ = Fa∗ (x⋆; μa∗ ), so IR holds for ˆ x under ˜ μ

whenever it holds for x⋆ under μ. Moreover, for every a̸ = a∗,

Fa∗ (ˆ x; ˜ μa∗ )−Fa(ˆ x; ˜ μa) =  Fa∗ (x⋆; ˜ μa∗ )−δ− Fa(x⋆; μa)−δ = Fa∗ (x⋆; ˜ μa∗ )−Fa(x⋆; μa) ≥ 0,

since x⋆ is feasible under μ and Fa∗ (x⋆; ˜ μa∗ ) ≥ Fa∗ (x⋆; μa∗ ). Hence, ˆ x ∈ Xa∗ (˜ μ). Since h is strictly increasing and ¯ qa∗ (y) > 0 for all y,

X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(ˆ x(y)) = X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x⋆(y) − δ) < X

> y∈Y

¯qa∗ (y)h(x⋆(y)) = Wa∗ (μ).

Therefore Wa∗ (˜ μ) ≤ P 

> y

¯qa∗ (y)h(ˆ x(y)) < W a∗ (μ), proving strictness. Since revenues are unchanged by the change in second-order dispersion, the principal’s maximal profit strictly increases. 

## C.5 Proof of Lemma 1 

By Assumption 1, λ2(y1) = − 1 

> γ

log max 

> q∈Q2

q(y1). If y1 = 1, then max 

> q∈Q2

q(1) = max {θL, θ H } =

θH , hence λ2(1) = − log( θH )/γ . If y1 = 0, then max 

> q∈Q2

q(0) = max {1 − θL, 1 − θH } = 1 − θL,hence λ2(0) = − log(1 − θL)/γ .

## C.6 Proof of Theorem 1 

Lemma 6. Fix λ > 0 and Bernoulli distributions q(α), q (β) ∈ ∆( Y ) with α, β ∈ (0 , 1) .Then, sup x:Y →R

 gq(α)(x; λ) − gq(β)(x; λ) = 1 

> λ

log   max  βα , 1−β

> 1−α

.

Proof of Lemma 6. Let q(α) and q(β) be Bernoulli distributions on Y = {0, 1} with success probabilities α, β ∈ (0 , 1), and fix λ > 0. 46 Step 1: normalization. For any δ ∈ R, translation invariance of gq implies gq(x − δ1; λ) = 

gq(x; λ) − δ and therefore 

gq(α)(x; λ) − gq(β)(x; λ) = gq(α)(x − δ1; λ) − gq(β)(x − δ1; λ).

Hence, w.l.o.g. set x(0) = 0 and write x(1) = t ∈ R.

Step 2: reparameterization. Let r := e−λt > 0. Then 

gq(α)(x; λ) = − 1

λ log  (1 − α) + αr , gq(β)(x; λ) = − 1

λ log  (1 − β) + βr ,

so gq(α)(x; λ) − gq(β)(x; λ) = 1 

> λ

log (1 −β)+ βr  

> (1 −α)+ αr

= 1 

> λ

log ϕ(r), where ϕ(r) := (1 −β)+ βr  

> (1 −α)+ αr

.

Step 3: maximization over r > 0. A direct derivative calculation gives 

ϕ′(r) = β(1 − α) − α(1 − β)

 (1 − α) + αr 2 = β − α

 (1 − α) + αr 2 ,

so ϕ is monotone in r. Therefore, sup r> 0 ϕ(r) equals the larger of the two boundary limits: lim  

> r↓0

ϕ(r) = 1 − β

1 − α , lim  

> r↑∞

ϕ(r) = βα .

Taking the larger boundary value and applying log( ·)/λ yields sup  

> x:Y→R

 gq(α)(x; λ) − gq(β)(x; λ) = 1

λ log 



max 

 βα , 1 − β

1 − α

 

.

Proof of Theorem 1. We prove parts 1.1 and 1.2 separately starting with the former. 

— Theorem 1.1. Let λS := λ2(1) = − log( θH )/γ and let μS := μ2(·| y1 = 1) with 

μS (qH ) = mS (θL) given by (7). Fix any utility vector x : Y → R. Then 

M (μS , λ S ; x) = mS (θL) gqH (x; λS ) − gq1 (x; λS ) + (1 − mS (θL))  gqL (x; λS ) − gq1 (x; λS ).

Since θH > p > θ L, Lemma 6 yields for all x:

gqH (x; λS ) − gq1 (x; λS ) ≤ 1

λS

log 



max 

 pθH

, 1 − p

1 − θH

 

= 1

λS

log 1 − p

1 − θH

,gqL (x; λS ) − gq1 (x; λS ) ≤ 1

λS

log 



max 

 pθL

, 1 − p

1 − θL

 

= 1

λS

log pθL

,

where the equalities use θH > p (so 1−p 

> 1−θH

> pθH ) and p > θ L (so pθL > 1−p 

> 1−θL

). Combining, 

M (μS , λ S ; x) ≤ 1

λS

log 1 − p

1 − θH

+ 1 − mS (θL)

λS

log pθL

∀x. (49) Now, note that 1 − mS (θL) = (1 −m)θL  

> mθ H+(1 −m)θL

≤ 1−mmθ H θL. Hence, 0 ≤ (1 − mS (θL)) log pθL

≤ 1 − mmθ H

θL log pθL

−−→ 

> θL↓0

0,

since θ log(1 /θ ) → 0 as θ ↓ 0. 47 Assume λS > λ∗ = 1 

> k

log 1−p 

> 1−θH

. Equivalently, 1 

> λS

log 1−p 

> 1−θH

< k. Let η := k − 

> 1
> λS

log   1−p

> 1−θH

 > 0. Choose ¯θL ∈ (0 , p ) such that for all θL ∈ (0 , ¯θL), 1 − mS (θL)

λS

log pθL

< η

2 .

Then, (49) implies M (μS , λ S ; x) ≤ k − η/ 2 for all x, and therefore 

C(μS , λ S ) = sup 

> x

M (μS , λ S ; x) ≤ k − η/ 2 < k. 

Finally, if C(μS , λ S ) < k , there does not exist any continuation utility schedule x2(1 , ·)with M (μS , λ S ; x2(1 , ·)) ≥ k, so by Proposition 6, action a2 = 2 is not implementable after history ( a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1). 

— Theorem 1.2. Given C(μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)) < k , fix any dynamic contract ( x1, x 2) and consider any induced SPNE. On the history ( a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1), the state entering t = 2 is (μ2(1) , λ 2(1)). Since C(μ2(1) , λ 2(1)) < k , by definition of incentive capacity (eq. (14)), we have M (μ2(1) , λ 2(1); x) < k for every continuation utility vector x. In particular, 

M  μ2(1) , λ 2(1); x2(1 , ·) < k. By Proposition 6, this implies that after y1 = 1, the agent strictly prefers a2 = 1 to a2 = 2. Thus, in any SPNE, P(a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2) = 0 . Recall that the principal’s period-2 scale-up utility is R2 = 1 + ( A − 1) 1{a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2 }

(Section 5.1), so R2 = 1 almost surely under any SPNE whenever the above event has probability zero. Hence, the principal’s expected profit is independent of A.

## C.7 Proof of Corollary 1 

Lemma 7. Fix r ∈ [0 , 1] and consider Πr in (17) . If a1 = 2 and s1 is observed, then the induced likelihoods satisfy qΠr 

> H

(1) = r + (1 − r)θH , q Πr 

> L

(1) = r + (1 − r)θL, and the posterior and misspecification intensity are 

μ2(qH |s1 = 1) = m [r + (1 − r)θH ]

m [r + (1 − r)θH ] + (1 − m) [ r + (1 − r)θL], (50) 

λ2(s1 = 1) = − log  r + (1 − r)θH



γ . (51) 

Proof of Lemma 7. Fix r ∈ [0 , 1] and consider Π r in (17). 

Step 1: induced likelihoods. For any Bernoulli distribution q with q(1) = θ, (15) gives 

qΠr

(1) = q(1)Π r(1 |1) + q(0)Π r(1 |0) = θ + (1 − θ)r = r + (1 − r)θ. Applying this with 

θ = θH and θ = θL yields qΠr 

> H

(1) = r + (1 − r)θH and qΠr 

> L

(1) = r + (1 − r)θL.

Step 2: Bayes updating of μ. By Bayes rule and μ1(qH ) = m,

μ2(qH |s1 = 1) = m q Πr 

> H

(1) 

m q Πr 

> H

(1) + (1 − m) qΠr 

> L

(1) = m [r + (1 − r)θH ]

m [r + (1 − r)θH ] + (1 − m) [ r + (1 − r)θL],

which is (50). 48 Step 3: LLR updating of λ. By (16), λ2(s1 = 1) = 1

> γ

  − log max 

> q∈Q2

qΠr

(1) . Since θH > θ L

and qΠr

(1) = r + (1 − r)q(1) is increasing in q(1), max 

> q∈Q2

qΠr

(1) = qΠr 

> H

(1) = r + (1 − r)θH .Hence λ2(s1 = 1) = − log( r+(1 −r)θH ) 

> γ

, which is (51). 

Proof of Corollary 1. Fix a binary feedback policy Π satisfying Π(1 |1) = 1. Since Π( ·|· ) is binary, the only free parameter is the false-positive rate r := Π(1 |0) ∈ [0 , 1] , so Π(0 |1) = 0 and Π(0 |0) = 1 − r.

Step 1: induced likelihood of a favorable evaluation under qH . Under qH , the success probability is θH , hence 

qΠ 

> H

(1) = PΠ(s1 = 1 | qH ) = θH Π(1 |1) + (1 − θH )Π(1 |0) = θH + (1 − θH )r. 

Step 2: translate the constraint λ2(s1 = 1) ≤ λ∗. By (16) and θH > θ L, the supremum defining the LLR update at s1 = 1 is attained at qH , so 

λ2(s1 = 1) = 1

γ



− log max q∈Q2 qΠ(1) 



= − log  qΠ 

> H

(1) 

γ = − log  θH + (1 − θH )r

γ .

Therefore, λ2(s1 = 1) ≤ λ∗ is equivalent to 

− log  θH + (1 − θH )r ≤ γλ ∗ ⇐⇒ θH + (1 − θH )r ≥ e−γλ ∗

.

If e−γλ ∗

≤ θH , then the inequality holds already at r = 0, so the smallest feasible false-positive rate is 0. Otherwise, solving the inequality yields r ≥ e−γλ ∗ −θH 

> 1−θH

. Combining the two cases, feasibility is equivalent to 

r ≥ r∗ := max 



0, e−γλ ∗

− θH

1 − θH



.

Step 3: optimality and uniqueness. Under the maintained restriction Π(1 |1) = 1, the objective “minimize false positives” is “minimize r = Π(1 |0).” The feasible set is {r ∈

[0 , 1] : r ≥ r∗}, whose unique minimizer is r = r∗. Thus, the unique optimal policy is the coarse evaluation Π r∗

.

## C.8 Proof of Corollary 2 

Fix r ∈ (0 , 1] and consider Π r.

Step 1: the posterior weight on qL after s1 = 1 . By Lemma 7, 

μ2(qH |s1 = 1) = m α H (θL)

m α H (θL) + (1 − m) αL(θL),

where αH (θL) := r + (1 − r)θH and αL(θL) := r + (1 − r)θL. As θL ↓ 0, we have αL(θL) ↓ r

and αH (θL) ≡ r + (1 − r)θH . Hence lim  

> θL↓0

μ2(qH |s1 = 1) = m [r + (1 − r)θH ]

m [r + (1 − r)θH ] + (1 − m) r ∈ (0 , 1) ,

49 so lim inf 

> θL↓0

 1 − μ2(qH |s1 = 1)  > 0.

Let mr

> 1

(θL) := μ2(qH |s1 = 1) and write 1 − mr

> 1

(θL) = μ2(qL|s1 = 1). 

Step 2: Lower bound on capacity. At the favorable-evaluation node, the continuation state is μr

> 1

(qH ) = mr

> 1

(θL), μ r

> 1

(qL) = 1 − mr

> 1

(θL), and λr 

> 1

= λ2(s1 = 1) . By Observation 2, 

C(μr

> 1

, λ r

> 1

) ≥ 1

λr

> 1



mr

> 1

(θL) log pθH

+  1 − mr

> 1

(θL) log pθL



.

Since λr 

> 1

= − log( r+(1 −r)θH ) 

> γ

does not depend on θL and is finite for r > 0, while log( p/θ L) →

+∞ as θL ↓ 0 and lim inf θL↓0(1 − mr

> 1

(θL)) > 0, the right-hand side diverges to + ∞.Therefore C(μr

> 1

, λ r

> 1

) → +∞ as θL ↓ 0, proving the stated limit. 

Step 3: No breakthrough traps. Given k > 0, choose ¯θL(r) ∈ (0 , p ) such that for all 

θL ∈ (0 , ¯θL(r)), C(μr

> 1

, λ r

> 1

) ≥ k. Then, by Proposition 6, a2 = 2 is implementable after 

s1 = 1. Hence, for such θL it cannot be the case that C(μ2(·| s1 = 1) , λ 2(s1 = 1)) < k , so a breakthrough trap cannot arise under Π r.

## C.9 Proof of Corollary 3 

Lemma 8. Fix any posterior μ ∈ ∆( Q2) and define the benchmark joint distribution 

π0(q, y ) := μ(q) q(y) on Q2 × Y . Fix any λ ∈ (0 , ∞) and any payoff z : Y → R. Then, 

min    

> π∈∆( Q2×Y): πQ2=μ

( X

> (q,y )∈Q2×Y

π(q, y ) z(y) + 1

λ DKL 

 π π0)

= X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) gq(z; λ), (52) 

where gq is defined in (12) . Moreover, the minimizer is given by 

π∗(q, y ) = μ(q) q(y) exp {− λz (y)}

P 

> y′∈Y

q(y′) exp {− λz (y′)} for each (q, y ) ∈ Q2 × Y. (53) 

Proof of Lemma 8. Fix μ, λ, z as in the statement and write π0(q, y ) = μ(q)q(y). Consider any π ∈ ∆( Q2 × Y ) satisfying the marginal restriction πQ2 = μ. Let supp( μ) := {q ∈ Q2 :

μ(q) > 0}. The marginal restriction implies that for each q ∈ Q2 we have P 

> y∈Y

π(q, y ) = 

μ(q). In particular, if μ(q) = 0 then necessarily π(q, y ) = 0 for all y ∈ Y . For each 

q ∈ supp( μ) define the conditional distribution rq(y) := π(q,y ) 

> μ(q)

for all y ∈ Y. Then, 

rq ∈ ∆( Y ). Conversely, any collection {rq}q∈supp( μ) with rq ∈ ∆( Y ) induces a feasible 

π by setting π(q, y ) = μ(q)rq(y) for q ∈ supp( μ) and π(q, y ) = 0 for q /∈ supp( μ). Conversely, any {rq}q∈Q2 with rq ∈ ∆( Y ) induces a feasible π via π(q, y ) = μ(q)rq(y), which automatically satisfies πQ2 = μ. In this case, the payoff term decomposes as 

X

> (q,y )

π(q, y ) z(y) = X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) X

> y∈Y

rq(y) z(y).

50 Next, the KL term also decomposes: 

DKL (π∥π0) = X

> (q,y )

π(q, y ) log π(q, y )

π0(q, y ) = X

> q∈Q2

X

> y∈Y

μ(q)rq(y) log μ(q)rq(y)

μ(q)q(y) = X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) DKL (rq∥q).

Therefore, the minimization problem on the left-hand side of (52) is equivalent to min   

> {rq∈∆( Y)}q∈Q2

X

> q∈Q2

μ(q)

( X

> y∈Y

rq(y) z(y) + 1

λ DKL (rq∥q)

)

.

Since the choice variables {rq} are separable across q and μ(q) is fixed, this equals 

X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) min  

> r∈∆( Y)

( X

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + 1

λ DKL (r∥q)

)

.

By (2), the inner minimum equals gq(z; λ) as defined in (12). This proves (52). Finally, Dupuis and Ellis (1997, Proposition 1.4.2) delivers the minimizer for each q:

r∗ 

> q

(y) = q(y) exp {− λz (y)}

P 

> y′∈Y

q(y′) exp {− λz (y′)},

and hence π∗(q, y ) = μ(q)r∗ 

> q

(y), which is exactly (53). 

Proof of Corollary 3. Fix {E, I } and γ > 0. Throughout, μ2(·| y1) is given by (7) and 

λ2(·) evolves by Assumption 1 and Lemma 1. Recall gq and G from (12)–(13). 

Step 1: Terminal reduction and monotonicity in γ. Fix any history y1 ∈ Y and any continuation utility vector z : Y → R. Applying (2) (Dupuis and Ellis, 1997, Proposition 1.4.2) to (8) yields V2(y1, 1; z) = gq1 (z; λ2(y1)) . Similarly, Lemma 8 (applied with μ =

μ2(·| y1) and λ = λ2(y1)) implies from (9) that 

V2(y1, 2; z) = X

> q∈Q2

μ2(q|y1) gq(z; λ2(y1)) − k = G z; μ2(·| y1), λ 2(y1) − k. 

Therefore, by (27), 

V2(y1; x2) = max 

n

gq1

 x2(y1, ·); λ2(y1), G x2(y1, ·); μ2(·| y1), λ 2(y1) − k

o

. (54) Now specialize to contract I. Under the given hypothesis, the agent chooses a1 = 2 under I for every γ, so μ2(·| y1) is independent of γ and 

λγ 

> 2

(1) = − log( θH )

γ , λγ 

> 2

(0) = − log(1 − θL)

γ

by Lemma 1. In particular, for each y1 ∈ Y , γ′ > γ implies λγ′ 

> 2

(y1) < λ γ 

> 2

(y1). By Lemma 4, for any q and any fixed x, λ 7 → gq(x; λ) is weakly decreasing on (0 , ∞), and it is strictly decreasing whenever x is non-constant. Hence, for each y1,

γ′ > γ =⇒ gq1

 xI

> 2

(y1, ·); λγ′ 

> 2

(y1) ≥ gq1

 xI

> 2

(y1, ·); λγ 

> 2

(y1),

and similarly for each q ∈ Q2, gq(xI

> 2

(y1, ·); λγ′ 

> 2

(y1)) ≥ gq(xI

> 2

(y1, ·); λγ 

> 2

(y1)) . Since μ2(·| y1)51 has full support on Q2, summing across q yields 

G xI

> 2

(y1, ·); μ2(·| y1), λ γ′ 

> 2

(y1) ≥ G xI

> 2

(y1, ·); μ2(·| y1), λ γ 

> 2

(y1).

If, in addition, xI

> 2

(y1, ·) is non-constant, then all of the above weak inequalities are strict by the strict part of Lemma 4. Applying these monotonicities to (54) shows that for each 

y1, V I 

> 2

(y1; γ) is weakly increasing in γ, and it is strictly increasing at y1 = 1 because (19) implies xI

> 2

(1 , ·) is non-constant and therefore both terms inside the max in (54) strictly increase in γ. Formally, if γ′ > γ , then both components inside the max are strictly larger at γ′ than at γ, hence the max is strictly larger as well: 

V I 

> 2

(1; γ′) > V I 

> 2

(1; γ), V I 

> 2

(0; γ′) ≥ V I 

> 2

(0; γ). (55) 

Step 2: The a1 = 2 branch value under I is strictly increasing in γ. Define the (type-dependent) first-period payoff vector induced by contract I:

zIγ (y1) := xI

> 1

(y1) + δ V I 

> 2

(y1; γ), y1 ∈ Y. 

By (55) and δ > 0, 

zIγ′ (1) > z Iγ (1) , zIγ′ (0) ≥ zIγ (0) whenever γ′ > γ. (56) Next, compute the period-1 innovation evaluation. Applying Lemma 8 to the min-imization in (9) at t = 1 (with μ = μ1 and λ = λ1, where π01 (q, y ) = μ1(q)q(y) and 

πQ2 = μ1) yields, for any z : Y → R,

V1(∅, 2; z) = G(z; μ1, λ 1) − k. (57) We claim that G(·; μ1, λ 1) is strictly increasing in each coordinate. Let z, z ′ : Y → R

satisfy z′(y) ≥ z(y) for all y and z′(y0) > z (y0) for some y0 with q(y0) > 0. Then, 

X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ1z′(y) < X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ1z(y)

for each q ∈ Q2, because e−λ1(·) is strictly decreasing and the inequality is strict at y0. Ap-plying −(1 /λ 1) log( ·) gives gq(z′; λ1) > g q(z; λ1) for each q, and therefore G(z′; μ1, λ 1) >

G(z; μ1, λ 1) after weighting by μ1 (which has full support). Applying this strict mono-tonicity to (56) yields G(zIγ′ ; μ1, λ 1) > G(zIγ ; μ1, λ 1) whenever γ′ > γ, and hence, by (57), 

V1(∅, 2; zIγ′ ) > V1(∅, 2; zIγ ). Under the hypothesis that a1 = 2 is optimal under contract I

for every γ, we have V I 

> 1

(γ) = V1(∅, 2; zIγ ), so V I 

> 1

(γ) is strictly increasing in γ.

Step 3: V E 

> 1

(γ) is constant in γ. Under the hypothesis that a1 = 1 is optimal under contract E for every γ, Assumption 1 implies λ2 = λ1 and μ2 = μ1, so the continuation values V E 

> 2

(·) computed from (27) are independent of γ, and therefore so is the induced period-1 payoff vector xE 

> 1

(·) + δV E 

> 2

(·). By construction, if a1 = 1 then μ2 = μ1, and by Assumption 1 we also have λ2 = λ1. Therefore the continuation value V E 

> 2

(·) (and hence 

V E 

> 1

(γ)) is independent of γ. As a result, the continuation values V E 

> 2

(·) computed from 52 (27) are independent of γ. Thus, V E 

> 1

(γ) is constant in γ.

Step 4: Continuity of D(γ). Under contract I, the posterior μ2(·| y1) is independent of γ by the maintained hypothesis that a1 = 2 is chosen for every γ. Moreover, by Lemma 1, for each y1 ∈ Y we have λγ 

> 2

(y1) = Z(y1)/γ for constant Z(y1) > 0, hence 

γ 7 → λγ 

> 2

(y1) is continuous on (0 , ∞). Since Y is finite and each q has full support on Y ,the mapping λ 7 → gq(x; λ) = −(1 /λ ) log   P  

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y) is continuous on (0 , ∞) for any fixed payoff vector x. It follows from (54) that for each y1, the continuation value γ 7 →

V I 

> 2

(y1; γ) is continuous as the pointwise maximum of two continuous functions. Hence 

γ 7 → zIγ (y1) = xI

> 1

(y1) + δV I 

> 2

(y1; γ) is continuous, and therefore γ 7 → V I 

> 1

(γ) = V1(∅, 2; zIγ )is continuous because G(·; μ1, λ 1) is continuous on RY . Under contract E, Step 3 shows 

V E 

> 1

(γ) is constant, so D(γ) is continuous. 

Step 5. Since V I 

> 1

(γ) is strictly increasing and V E 

> 1

(γ) is constant, the difference D(γ) = 

V I 

> 1

(γ) − V E 

> 1

(γ) is strictly increasing. By the continuity argument above, D(·) is also continuous on (0 , ∞). Fix γ′ < γ ′′ with D(γ′) < 0 < D (γ′′ ). By continuity there exists 

γ∗ ∈ (γ′, γ ′′ ) such that D(γ∗) = 0, and by strict monotonicity this γ∗ is unique. Hence, 

D(γ) < 0 for all γ < γ ∗ and D(γ) > 0 for all γ > γ ∗, which delivers the cutoff sorting. 

## C.10 Proof of Corollary 4 

Proof. Step 1: Implementing innovation. The condition C(μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 1) > k means that there exists a finite vector x : Y → R such that M (μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 1; x) > k, where 

M (μ, λ ; x) = G(x; μ, λ ) − gq1 (x; λ) is defined in (14). Consider a turnover policy that replaces the incumbent after y1 = 1 and offers the new agent the continuation contract 

x2(1 , ·) = x. Since the new agent’s state at t = 2 is ( μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 1), Proposition 6 implies that a2 = 2 is optimal for him after y1 = 1. This proves part (i). 

Step 2: Net profit is strictly increasing in A. Fix any turnover contract that induces 

a2 = 2 after ( a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1). Under this contract, the net expected profit equals the expression in (34) minus the expected hiring cost φ P(y1 = 1). Wage costs and 

φ P(y1 = 1) do not depend on A, so A enters net profit only through R2y2, where 

R2 = 1 + ( A − 1) 1{a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2 }. Since a1 = 2 is induced and a2 = 2 occurs after y1 = 1 under turnover, we have 1{a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2 } = 1{y1 = 1 } along the induced equilibrium path. Thus, E[y1 + R2y2] = E[y1 + y2] + ( A − 1) E[1{y1 = 1 } y2] .

Moreover, 

E[1{y1 = 1 } y2] = P(y1 = 1) E[y2 | y1 = 1 , a 2 = 2] = P(y1 = 1) X

> q∈Q2

μ2(q|y1 = 1) q(1) ,

which is strictly positive because P(y1 = 1) = mθ H + (1 − m)θL > 0 and P 

> q

μ2(q|y1 =1) q(1) ∈ (θL, θ H ) ⊂ (0 , 1). Therefore, net expected profit is affine in A with strictly positive slope, hence strictly increasing in A. This proves part (ii). 53 Step 3: Turnover is optimal. If the incumbent is kept after y1 = 1, the breakthrough-trap condition C(μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)) < k implies that, under any dynamic contract and any induced SPNE, a2 = 2 is never implemented after ( a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1) and the principal’s expected profit is independent of A (Theorem 1). Let Πkeep denote the supremum of net expected profit among all dynamic contracts that keep the incumbent after y1 = 1 (note that this value does not depend on A): 

Πkeep := sup net expected profit from ( x1, x 2) : ( x1, x 2) keeps incumbent after y1 = 1 .

Fix the turnover contract constructed in Steps 1–2 and let Πturn (A) denote its net profit. By Step 2, Πturn (A) = Πturn (1) + ( A − 1) s for some s > 0. Since Πkeep < +∞ is assumed, define ¯A := 1 + Πkeep −Πturn (1)  

> s

. Then, Πturn (A) > Π keep for all A > ¯A, hence the turnover contract constructed above yields strictly higher net expected profit than every contract that keeps the incumbent after y1 = 1. In particular, whenever the principal’s problem admits an optimal contract, some optimal contract features post-success turnover (for every fixed φ). 

## C.11 Proof of Theorem 2 

Throughout, we maintain the infinite-horizon environment in Appendix B, where the objective data-generating process satisfies: conditional on the realized action path ( at)t≥1,outcomes are independent over time and satisfy P[yt = y | at = a] = p∗

> a

(y). The global set of structured models is Q ⊂ ∆( Y )A. We also maintain statistical sophistication with LLR( ·, Q ) defined against the action-indexed unstructured class ∆( Y )A as in (38). 

Public vs. private histories. In the contracting problem, payments are measurable with respect to the public outcome history ( y1, . . . , y t−1), since actions are not observed by the principal. The agent, however, observes his past actions; therefore his posterior 

μt and robustness state λt are functions of the private history ( a1, y 1, . . . , a t−1, y t−1). The proofs below work with the agent’s private filtration Ft := σ(a1, y 1, . . . , a t, y t). 

C.11.1 Technical lemmas 

Here, we state some well-known results in misspecified Bayesian learning, so for brevity, we will omit their proofs but we will cite the relevant papers that contain them. 

Lemma 9. Fix λ > 0 and θ ∈ (0 , 1) , and suppose μ = δqθ where qθ(1) = θ. Then, 

C(δqθ , λ ) = 



1

λ log 

1 − p

1 − θ



if θ > p, 

1

λ log 

pθ



if θ < p. 

54 Proof of Lemma 9. This is an immediate specialization of Lemma 6 already proved in Appendix C. Applying Lemma 6 with ( α, β ) = ( θ, p ) yields 

C(δqθ , λ ) = 1

λ log 



max 

pθ , 1 − p

1 − θ

 

.

If θ > p , then (1 − p)/(1 − θ) > p/θ , so the maximum equals (1 − p)/(1 − θ); if θ < p the maximum equals p/θ .The next result follows directly as a special case from Lanzani (2025, Lemma 6). 

Lemma 10. Let (Tn)n≥1 be a deterministic or random sequence with Tn → ∞ such that 

αTn := 1

TnTnX

> t=1

1{at = 2 } −→ α ∈ [0 , 1] a.s. Then, under the true distribution induced by p∗, the following hold a.s. 

LLR( hTn+1 , Q )

Tn

−→ α D ∗ 

> 2

, and hence λTn+1 = LLR( hTn+1 , Q )

γ(Tn + 1) −→ α D ∗

> 2

γ .

The next result is the well-known result that Bayesian posteriors concentrate on KL minimizers, so we omit its proof because it follows the same logic as in Lanzani (2025) who adapts techniques from Berk (1966) and Esponda and Pouzo (2016). 

Lemma 11. Let N2,T → ∞ along a realized path. Let Q2 := arg min q∈Q2 DKL (p∗

> 2

∥q) and 

Q2 = {qL, q H }. Then, under the true distribution induced by p∗, μT (q) → 0 a.s. ∀q / ∈ Q 2.

C.11.2 Proof of Theorem 2 

Proof of Theorem 2. Assume innovation occurs infinitely often along the realized equi-librium path. Let N2,T := PTt=1 1{at = 2 } and αT := N2,T /T .

Step 1: reduce lim sup T αT to innovation times. Let t1 < t 2 < . . . be the (random) times at which the realized action is innovative, atm = 2. For any m ≥ 1 and any T such that 

tm ≤ T < t m+1 , we have N2,T = m, hence αT = mT . Since tm ≤ T < t m+1 , this yields 

mtm+1 − 1 ≤ αT = mT ≤ mtm

= αtm . (58) Then, for each T with N2,T = m, we have αT ≤ αtm , so lim sup T →∞ αT ≤ lim sup m→∞ αtm .Thus, ( αtm )m≥1 is a subsequence of ( αT )T ≥1, hence lim sup m→∞ αtm ≤ lim sup T →∞ αT .Therefore, lim sup T →∞ αT = lim sup m→∞ αtm =: α ∈ [0 , 1] . By the definition of lim sup, there exists an increasing (possibly random) subsequence ( mn)n≥1 such that αtmn → α

and tmn → ∞ .To apply Lemma 10 at times tmn (rather than tmn + 1), we set Tn := tmn − 1. For 

n large enough, tmn ≥ 2 so that Tn ≥ 1 and αTn is well-defined. Using N2,t m = m and 

N2,t m−1 = m−1 for tm ≥ 2, we have |αtm − αtm−1| = mtm − m−1 

> tm−1

= tm−mtm(tm−1) ≤ 1 

> tm−1

. Since 55 tmn → ∞ , it follows that αtmn −1 = αTn → α almost surely. Thus, Lemma 10 applied to the sequence ( Tn) yields 

λtmn = λTn+1 −→ ¯λ := αD ∗

> 2

γ a.s. (59) where it is assumed that the roadmap is misspecified, i.e., D∗ 

> 2

> 0. 

Step 2: incentive capacity must asymptotically cover k at innovation nodes. Fix an innovation time tm and the realized private history htm . Let ( Wt)t≥1 be the equilib-rium continuation values defined by (41). For a ∈ { 1, 2} define the action-contingent continuation-utility vectors zatm (y) := xtm

 χtm (htm ), y  + δ W tm+1 (htm , a, y ), ∀y ∈ Y and let ( μtm , λ tm ) := ( μtm (htm ), λ tm (htm )). Since atm = 2 is optimal at htm under the equi-librium contract, the recursion (41) implies G(z2 

> tm

; μtm , λ tm ) − k ≥ gq1 (z1 

> tm

; λtm ). Let 

ηm := δ ∥Wtm+1 (htm , 2, ·) − Wtm+1 (htm , 1, ·)∥∞. Then, for every y ∈ Y , z1 

> tm

(y) − z2 

> tm

(y) =

δ Wtm+1 (htm , 1, y )−Wtm+1 (htm , 2, y ) ≤ ηm, so, equivalently, z2 

> tm

−ηm1 ≤ z1 

> tm

≤ z2 

> tm

+ηm1.

By monotonicity of gq1 (·; λtm ) and translation invariance (Lemma 3), 

gq1 (z2 

> tm

; λtm )−ηm = gq1 (z2 

> tm

−ηm1; λtm ) ≤ gq1 (z1 

> tm

; λtm ) ≤ gq1 (z2 

> tm

+ηm1; λtm ) = gq1 (z2 

> tm

; λtm )+ ηm.

In particular, gq1 (z1 

> tm

; λtm ) ≥ gq1 (z2 

> tm

; λtm ) − ηm. Combining with G(z2 

> tm

; μtm , λ tm ) − k ≥

gq1 (z1 

> tm

; λtm ) yields G(z2 

> tm

; μtm , λ tm ) − k ≥ gq1 (z2 

> tm

; λtm ) − ηm, hence M (μtm , λ tm ; z2 

> tm

) ≥

k − ηm, so C(μtm , λ tm ) ≥ k − ηm. We now show ηmn → 0 a.s. along the subsequence ( tmn )from Step 1. Since Q2 = {ˆq} and innovation occurs infinitely often, Lemma 11 implies 

μt(ˆ q|ht) → 1 a.s.; in particular, μtmn (ˆ q|htmn ) → 1 a.s. Fix any N ≥ 1. Applying Lemma 13 with q⋆ = ˆ q, t = tmn , and ht = htmn yields sup   

> ˜h∈H tmn ,N (htmn )

μ|˜h|(·| ˜h) − δˆq 1 ≤ 2KN 1 − μtmn (ˆ q|htmn )

μtmn (ˆ q|htmn ) −→ 0 a.s. for K in (96). Since λt(ht) = LLR( ht, Q )/(γt ) and tmn → ∞ , Lemma 14 implies sup   

> ˜h∈H tmn ,N (htmn )

λ|˜h|(˜h) − λtmn (htmn ) ≤ Bγ

1 + log( tmn + N )

tmn

−→ 0 a.s. for some constant B < ∞. By property (ii) of the metric d in Appendix B.2, the previous display implies sup ˜h∈H tmn ,N (htmn ) d λ|˜h|(˜h), λ tmn (htmn ) → 0 a.s. Combining with (59) and the triangle inequality for d gives sup ˜h∈H tmn ,N (htmn ) d λ|˜h|(˜h), ¯λ −→ 0 a.s. Thus, for each fixed N , the two suprema in (43) evaluated at t = tmn converge to 0 with (μ∞, λ ∞) = ( δˆq, ¯λ). Since δ ∈ (0 , 1) and the contract is bounded, Proposition 10.(b) applies along ( tmn ). In particular, the argument in Proposition 10.(b) yields the uniform convergence on the one-step contingency set Htmn ,1(htmn ): sup 

> (a,y )∈{ 1,2}× Y

Wtmn +1 (htmn , a, y ) − W ∞ 

> tmn +1

(htmn , a, y ) −→ 0 a.s., where ( W ∞ 

> t

)t≥1 solves (44) for ( μ∞, λ ∞) = ( δˆq, ¯λ). Finally, since xt depends on ht only 56 through χt(ht) and the operator in (44) is history-independent, the unique bounded solu-tion ( W ∞ 

> t

) depends on ht only through χt(ht). Hence W ∞ 

> tmn +1

(htmn , 2, y ) = W ∞ 

> tmn +1

(htmn , 1, y )for all y, and therefore ηmn → 0 a.s. Consequently, 

C(μtmn , λ tmn ) ≥ k − ηmn with ηmn → 0 a.s. (60) 

— An upper bound using degenerate beliefs. Fix ( μ, λ ) and any x : Y → R. Since 

G(x; μ, λ ) = P 

> q∈Q2

μ(q)gq(x; λ), 

M (μ, λ ; x) = X

> q∈Q2

μ(q)



gq(x; λ) − gq1 (x; λ)



= X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) M (δq, λ ; x) ≤ X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) C(δq, λ ),

where the inequality uses M (δq, λ ; x) ≤ sup x′ M (δq, λ ; x′) = C(δq, λ ). Taking the supre-mum over x yields 

C(μ, λ ) ≤ X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) C(δq, λ ). (61) 

— Reduction to KL-best fits. Let Q2 := arg min q∈Q2 DKL (p∗

> 2

∥q). Since innovation occurs infinitely often, N2,T → ∞ , so Lemma 11 implies μT (q) → 0 for all q / ∈ Q 2 almost surely. In particular, along ( tmn ), εn := P 

> q / ∈Q 2

μtmn (q) → 0 a.s. If α = 0, then lim sup T →∞ αT = α = 0 ≤ α∗ and the first claim holds. Hence, assume α > 0, so ¯λ > 0. By (59), there exists n0 such that for all n ≥ n0, λtmn ≥ ¯λ/ 2.

Since Q2 is finite and Lemma 9 gives C(δq, λ ) < ∞ for each λ > 0, the constant B := max q∈Q2 C(δq, ¯λ/ 2) < ∞ is well-defined. Lemma 9 also implies C(δq, λ ) is decreasing in λ (for fixed q), so for n ≥ n0 and all q ∈ Q2 we have C(δq, λ tmn ) ≤ B. Applying (61) at ( μtmn , λ tmn ) and splitting the sum into q ∈ Q 2 and q / ∈ Q 2 gives, for n ≥ n0,

C(μtmn , λ tmn ) ≤ max q∈Q 2 C(δq, λ tmn ) + εnB. Combine with (60) and let n → ∞ to obtain 

k ≤ max 

> q∈Q 2

C(δq, ¯λ), (62) where we used εn → 0, λtmn → ¯λ, and continuity of C(δq, λ ) in λ > 0 (hence continuity of max q∈Q 2 C(δq, λ )) from Lemma 9. 

— Solve for the innovation frequency bound. By Lemma 9, for each q ∈ Q2 the inequality 

C(δq, λ ) ≥ k is equivalent to λ ≤ ¯λk(q), where ¯λk(qH ) = ¯λHk and ¯λk(qL) = ¯λLk as defined in (20). Hence, (62) implies ¯λ ≤ max q∈Q 2

¯λk(q). Since ¯λ = αD ∗ 

> 2

/γ (59), we conclude lim sup  

> T→∞

αT = α ≤ γD∗

> 2

max 

> q∈Q 2

¯λk(q) =: α∗,

which proves the first claim. 

— Cycles. When α∗ < 1 and innovation occurs infinitely often, then lim sup T →∞ αT ≤

α∗ < 1. If the safe action occurred only finitely many times, then eventually at = 2 for all t, implying αT → 1, contradicting lim sup T →∞ αT < 1. Thus, the safe action must occur infinitely often, which proves the second claim. 57 C.12 Proof of Proposition 4 

Proof. Fix Q2 and an optimizer ( x∗, μ ∗) of ( Px,μ ) in (22). Recall that the mean model is ¯q2(y) = Eμ[q(y)] = P 

> q∈Q2

μ(q)q(y). Hence, for any fixed x and μ,

E¯q2

h(x(y))  = X

> y∈Y

 X 

> q∈Q2

μ(q)q(y)



h(x(y)) = X

> q∈Q2

μ(q)Eq

h(x(y)) .

Therefore, conditional on x = x∗, the optimal roadmap μ∗ solves the convex program min 

> μ∈∆( Q2)

X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) cq + 1

ρDKL (μ∥μ0) (63) s.t. X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) bq ≥ U0 + k, (64) 

X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) bq ≥ gq1 (x∗; λ) + k, (65) where we define, for each q ∈ Q2, cq := Eq[h(x∗(y))] and bq := gq(x∗; λ). The strict-feasibility assumption is a Slater condition for (64)–(65), so strong duality holds and there exist optimal multipliers η∗ ≥ 0 and β∗ ≥ 0 for these two constraints. 

Step 1: Lagrangian reduction to an entropy-regularized expectation. For any multipliers (η, β ) ∈ R2+, define the Lagrangian (dropping constants that do not depend on μ): 

L(μ; η, β ) = X

> q∈Q2

μ(q)



cq − (η + β)bq



+ 1

ρDKL (μ∥μ0).

Thus, for fixed ( η, β ), minimizing L(μ; η, β ) over μ ∈ ∆( Q2) is of the form covered by Dupuis and Ellis (1997, Proposition 1.4.2). 

Step 2: variational formula. Let fη,β (q) := cq − (η + β)bq. By Dupuis and Ellis (1997, Proposition 1.4.2), the minimizer of μ 7 → P 

> q

μ(q)fη,β (q) + 1 

> ρ

DKL (μ∥μ0) over ∆( Q2) is unique and given by the exponential tilt 

μη,β (q) = μ0(q) exp   − ρf η,β (q)P 

> r∈Q2

μ0(r) exp   − ρf η,β (r) =

μ0(q) exp 



ρ (η + β)bq − cq

P 

> r∈Q2

μ0(r) exp 



ρ (η + β)ar − cr

.

Since μ0 has full support and Q2 is finite, μη,β (q) > 0 for every q ∈ Q2.

Step 3: identify the primal optimizer via KKT. By strong duality (Slater) there exist optimal multipliers ( η∗, β ∗) such that the associated μη∗,β ∗ is primal-feasible and satisfies complementary slackness for (64)–(65). Uniqueness of the minimizer in Step 2 implies that the unique primal optimizer of (63) is μ∗ = μη∗,β ∗ .

Step 4: incentive score. Using bq = gq(x∗; λ) and the definition Sx(q; λ, η, β ) := η g q(x; λ)+ 

β gq(x; λ) − gq1 (x; λ), we have, for each q,(η∗ + β∗)bq = Sx∗ (q; λ, η ∗, β ∗) + β∗gq1 (x∗; λ),

58 and the term β∗gq1 (x∗; λ) is independent of q and is therefore absorbed into the normal-izing constant. Hence the optimal roadmap prior admits the logit form 

μ∗(q) ∝ μ0(q) exp 



ρ Sx∗ (q; λ, η ∗, β ∗) − Eq[h(x∗(y))] 

, ∀q ∈ Q2,

and in particular μ∗ has full support. 

# D Appendix: Omitted Proofs 

## D.1 Proof of Proposition 5 

Proof. Fix an arbitrary history-dependent action plan α = ( a1, σ 2) as in Definition 4. We show that the plan-induced evaluation obtained by composing the one-step operators 

z 7 → V t(ht, α t(ht); z) is a recursive variational preference in the sense of Maccheroni et al. (2006b) and hence dynamically consistent. Throughout, since Y and Q2 are finite, the simplices ∆( Y ) and ∆( Q2 × Y ) are compact. 

Step 1: reduce the a = 2 problem. Fix t ∈ { 1, 2} and a history ht. For r ∈ ∆( Y ) define 

Π(r) := {π ∈ ∆( Q2 × Y ) : πY = r}, τt(ht, 2; r) := inf 

> π∈Π(r)

κt(ht, 2; π),

where πY is the Y -marginal of π and κt(ht, 2; π) = + ∞ unless πQ2 = μt(ht). 

Claim 1. For every r ∈ ∆( Y ), the infimum defining τt(ht, 2; r) is attained: there exists 

π∗(r) ∈ Π(r) such that τt(ht, 2; r) = κt

 ht, 2; π∗(r).Proof of Claim 1. The set Π(r) is closed in ∆( Q2 × Y ) and hence compact. Notice that Π(r) is nonempty: the product distribution ˆ π ∈ ∆( Q2 × Y ) defined by ˆ π(q, y ) := 

μt(ht)( q) r(y) satisfies ˆ πY = r and ˆ πQ2 = μt(ht), hence ˆ π ∈ Π(r). Moreover, π 7 →

κt(ht, 2; π) is lower semicontinuous on ∆( Q2 × Y )—it is λt(ht)−1DKL (π∥π0 

> t

) on the closed affine set {π : πQ2 = μt(ht)} and + ∞ outside it. If inf π∈Π(r) κt(ht, 2; π) = + ∞, then any element of Π(r) is a minimizer. Otherwise, the infimum is finite, and Weierstrass’ theorem for lower semicontinuous functions on compact sets yields a minimizer. ■

Let z : Y → R. Since z depends only on y, for any π, P 

> (q,y )

π(q, y ) z(y) = 

P 

> y∈Y

πY (y) z(y). Hence, for any π with r := πY ,

X

> (q,y )

π(q, y ) z(y) + κt(ht, 2; π) ≥ X

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + τt(ht, 2; r).

Taking inf over π ∈ ∆( Q2 × Y ) gives inf  

> π∈∆( Q2×Y)

n X 

> (q,y )

π(q, y ) z(y) + κt(ht, 2; π)

o

≥ inf  

> r∈∆( Y)

n X 

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + τt(ht, 2; r)

o

.

59 Conversely, fix r ∈ ∆( Y ) and let π∗(r) be a minimizer from Claim 1. Then inf  

> π∈∆( Q2×Y)

n X 

> (q,y )

π(q, y ) z(y) + κt(ht, 2; π)

o

≤ X

> (q,y )

π∗(r)( q, y ) z(y) + κt

 ht, 2; π∗(r)

= X

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + τt(ht, 2; r).

Therefore, 

Vt(ht, 2; z) = inf  

> r∈∆( Y)

n X 

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + τt(ht, 2; r)

o

− k. 

By Step 2 below, r 7 → τt(ht, 2; r) is lower semicontinuous on the compact set ∆( Y ), so the infimum is attained and the infimum equals a minimum. This yields (31). 

Step 2: admissibility of the one-period-ahead indices. Define τt(ht, 1; r) := κt(ht, 1; r) = 

λt(ht)−1DKL (r∥q1). We verify that for each fixed ( t, h t, a ) the map r 7 → τt(ht, a ; r) is grounded, convex, and lower semicontinuous on ∆( Y ). Since ∆( Y ) is finite-dimensional, convexity and lower semicontinuity imply that r 7 → τt(ht, a ; r) is closed, matching the admissibility requirement in Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Proposition 2(ii)). 

Case a = 1 . The map r 7 → DKL (r∥q1) is convex and lower semicontinuous on ∆( Y ) and satisfies DKL (q1∥q1) = 0. Since λt(ht) > 0, the same properties hold for τt(ht, 1; ·), which is grounded. 

Case a = 2 .Groundedness. Let r0 := ( π0 

> t

)Y be the Y -marginal of the benchmark π0 

> t

(q, y ) = 

μt(ht)( q)q(y). Since ( π0 

> t

)Q2 = μt(ht), we have κt(ht, 2; π0 

> t

) = 0 and π0 

> t

∈ Π(r0), hence 

τt(ht, 2; r0) ≤ 0. Since κt(ht, 2; π) ≥ 0 for all π, we also have τt(ht, 2; r) ≥ 0 for all r.Thus, τt(ht, 2; r0) = 0. Moreover, since r0 ∈ ∆++ (Y ) := {r ∈ ∆( Y ) : r(y) > 0 ∀y}

under full support and τt(ht, 2; r0) = 0 < ∞, we have dom  τt(ht, 2; ·) ∩ ∆++ (Y )̸ = ∅,and similarly, dom  τt(ht, 1; ·) ∩ ∆++ (Y )̸ = ∅ because q1 ∈ ∆++ (Y ) and τt(ht, 1; q1) = 0, which verify the domain condition in Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Proposition 2(ii)). 

Convexity. Fix r0, r 1 ∈ ∆( Y ) and θ ∈ [0 , 1]. If τt(ht, 2; ri) = + ∞ for some i,the convexity inequality is immediate. Otherwise, pick minimizers πi ∈ Π(ri) with 

κt(ht, 2; πi) = τt(ht, 2; ri). Then, θπ 0 + (1 − θ)π1 ∈ Π(θr 0 + (1 − θ)r1) and, by con-vexity of κt(ht, 2; ·), 

τt

 ht, 2; θr 0 + (1 − θ)r1

 ≤ κt

 ht, 2; θπ 0 + (1 − θ)π1

 ≤ θκ t(ht, 2; π0) + (1 − θ)κt(ht, 2; π1)= θτ t(ht, 2; r0) + (1 − θ)τt(ht, 2; r1).

Lower semicontinuity. Let rn → r in ∆( Y ). If lim inf n→∞ τt(ht, 2; rn) = + ∞, then 

τt(ht, 2; r) ≤ lim inf n→∞ τt(ht, 2; rn) holds trivially. Otherwise, pass to a subsequence (not relabeled) such that τt(ht, 2; rn) → lim inf m→∞ τt(ht, 2; rm) < ∞. Let πn ∈ Π(rn)be minimizers, so κt(ht, 2; πn) = τt(ht, 2; rn) < ∞ for all n, hence ( πn)Q2 = μt(ht) for 60 all n. By compactness of ∆( Q2 × Y ), extract a further subsequence (not relabeled) with πn → π. Continuity of marginals gives πY = r. Moreover, since each πn is a minimizer with κt(ht, 2; πn) < ∞ whenever τt(ht, 2; rn) < ∞, we have ( πn)Q2 = μt(ht)for all sufficiently large n with finite value, and hence πQ2 = μt(ht) by continuity of marginals. Thus, κt(ht, 2; π) < ∞ whenever the liminf is finite. By lower semiconti-nuity of κt(ht, 2; ·), κt(ht, 2; π) ≤ lim inf n→∞ κt(ht, 2; πn) = lim inf n→∞ τt(ht, 2; rn). Since 

τt(ht, 2; r) ≤ κt(ht, 2; π) by definition of τt(ht, 2; r) as an infimum over Π(r), we obtain 

τt(ht, 2; r) ≤ lim inf n→∞ τt(ht, 2; rn), establishing lower semicontinuity. 

Step 3: dynamic consistency. Fix a plan α = ( a1, σ 2). Work on the event tree (Ω , (Ft)3

> t=1

)from Appendix A.1, where Ω = Y × Y , F1 = {∅ , Ω}, F2 = σ(y1), and F3 = σ(y1, y 2). We apply Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Proposition 2(ii) and Theorem 2) with horizon T = 3—so that t = 1 , 2 are the two decision nodes and t = 3 is the terminal node. 

(i) One-period-ahead ambiguity indices. For each t ∈ { 1, 2} and each history ht, the relevant set of one-step-ahead distributions is the set of probability measures on the immediate successors of the node ( t, h t). In our finite tree this is canonically identified with ∆( Y ): at t = 1 the successors are indexed by y1 ∈ Y , and at t = 2 (given h2 = y1)the successors are indexed by y2 ∈ Y . Under this identification, the plan-induced one-period-ahead index at node ( t, h t) is r 7 → τt

 ht, α t(ht); r.By Step 2, for each ( t, h t) the map r 7 → τt(ht, α t(ht); r) is grounded, convex, and lower semicontinuous on ∆( Y ), hence closed. Moreover, the domain condition in Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Proposition 2(ii)) holds: dom  τt(ht, α t(ht); ·)∩∆++ (Y )̸ = ∅. Measurability in Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Proposition 2(i)) is immediate in our finite tree: for each fixed r ∈ ∆( Y ), the map ω 7 → τ1(∅, a 1; r) is constant (hence F1-measurable), and ω =(y1, y 2) 7 → τ2

 y1, σ 2(y1); r depends only on y1 (hence is F2-measurable). 

(ii) Terminal condition. Define the terminal ambiguity index at t = 3 by 

c3(ω, p ) := 



0, if p = dω,

+∞, otherwise, 

ω ∈ Ω, p ∈ ∆(Ω) ,

where dω is the Dirac measure at ω ∈ Ω. Notice that this is the terminal requirement 

cT (ω, ·) = 1{dω } in Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Theorem 2(b)). 

(iii) Construction of the recursive ambiguity index. Given (i)–(ii), Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Theorem 2(b)) yields a (unique) recursive ambiguity index {ct}3 

> t=1

whose one-period-ahead ambiguity indices coincide with {τt(ht, α t(ht); ·)}t=1 ,2 and whose recursion is the no-gain condition with discount rate δ (Maccheroni et al., 2006b, eq. (11)). In particular, identifying any joint law p ∈ ∆(Ω) with its marginal r1 ∈ ∆( Y ) on y1 and its collection of conditionals {r2(y1) ∈ ∆( Y )}y1∈Y on y2 given y1 (with the convention that 

r2(y1) is arbitrary when r1(y1) = 0), the time–1 ambiguity cost induced by {ct} coincides 61 with the plan-induced cost in (32): 

c1

 r1, {r2(y1)}y1∈Y

 = δ X

> y1∈Y

r1(y1) τ2

 y1, σ 2(y1); r2(y1) + τ1(∅, a 1; r1).

(iv) dynamic consistency. Let z : Y → R be any continuation payoff vector at a node. By construction of {ct} (and the fact that c3 is the Dirac indicator), Maccheroni et al.’s (2006b) one-step recursion implies that at any history ht the conditional certainty equiv-alent for next-period payoffs takes the variational form min  

> r∈∆( Y)

n X 

> y∈Y

r(y) z(y) + τt

 ht, α t(ht); ro

.

Observe that our operator Vt(ht, α t(ht); z) differs from the expression above only by the deterministic action cost −k1{αt(ht) = 2 }, which is independent of r and hence does not affect the minimizing distortion or the one-period-ahead ambiguity index. Therefore, the node-by-node operators in the plan-induced evaluation coincide with those generated by the recursive ambiguity index {ct}, and by Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Theorem 2), the plan-induced preference is a recursive variational preference. By Maccheroni et al. (2006b, Theorem 1), it is dynamically consistent. The last step below is a bit more routine. 

Claim 2. Fix (x1, x 2). Suppose the plan-induced family of conditional preferences gener-ated by the node-by-node operators z 7 → V t(ht, α t(ht); z) is dynamically consistent. Then, the agent’s sequential optimization problem satisfies the principle of optimality, and the continuation values are obtained by backward induction as in (27) –(28) . In particular, there exists an optimal plan α∗ = ( a∗

> 1

, σ ∗ 

> 2

) with 

σ∗ 

> 2

(y1) ∈ arg max  

> a2∈{ 1,2}

V2

 y1, a 2; x2(y1, ·) ∀y1 ∈ Y, 

and 

a∗ 

> 1

∈ arg max 

> a1∈{ 1,2}

V1

 ∅, a 1; x1(·) + δV 2(·; x2).

Proof of Claim 2. Fix any ( x1, x 2). For any plan α = ( a1, σ 2) define the induced period-2 value vector wα(y1) := V2

 y1, σ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·), for y1 ∈ Y, and the induced time-1 value 

W (α) := V1

 ∅, a 1; x1(·) + δw α(·).

— Monotonicity. Each operator Vt(ht, a ; ·) is monotone (increasing) in its argument: if z ≥ z′ pointwise on Y , then for every feasible distortion (the relevant r ∈ ∆( Y ) or 

π ∈ ∆( Q2 × Y )), the objective P rz + τ (or P πz + κ) is weakly larger under z than under z′. Taking the minimum over distortions preserves the inequality, so Vt(ht, a ; z) ≥Vt(ht, a ; z′). 

— Optimization. For each y1 ∈ Y , choose σ∗ 

> 2

(y1) ∈ arg max a2∈{ 1,2} V2

 y1, a 2; x2(y1, ·) and define w∗(y1) := V2

 y1, σ ∗ 

> 2

(y1); x2(y1, ·) = max a2∈{ 1,2} V2

 y1, a 2; x2(y1, ·) = V2(y1; x2).

62 Then, w∗(y1) ≥ wα(y1) for all y1, so by monotonicity, for every fixed a1 we have 

V1

 ∅, a 1; x1(·) + δw ∗(·) ≥ V1

 ∅, a 1; x1(·) + δw α(·) = W (α).

Therefore, for any plan α = ( a1, σ 2) we can weakly improve the time-1 evaluation by replacing σ2 with σ∗ 

> 2

. Taking the supremum over α yields sup 

> α=( a1,σ 2)

W (α) = max  

> a1∈{ 1,2}

V1

 ∅, a 1; x1(·) + δw ∗(·) = max  

> a1∈{ 1,2}

V1

 ∅, a 1; x1(·) + δV 2(·; x2),

which is the backward-induction recursion (27)–(28). 

— Sequential optimality. Dynamic consistency ensures that these node-by-node maxi-mizers do not generate any commitment/re-optimization discrepancy: after any history 

y1, the continuation action σ∗ 

> 2

(y1) remains optimal when the period-2 problem is faced. ■

## D.2 Proof of Proposition 6 

Fix a history y1 ∈ Y and a continuation utility schedule x2(y1, ·) : Y → R. At t = 2, the agent solves: max a2∈{ 1,2} V2

 y1, a 2; x2(y1, ·), with V2 defined in (8)–(9). 

Step 1: safe action value equals gq1 (·; λ2(y1)) . For a2 = 1, 

V2(y1, 1; x) = min  

> r∈∆( Y)

(X

> y∈Y

r(y)x(y) + 1

λ2(y1)DKL (r∥q1)

)

.

By Dupuis and Ellis (1997, Proposition 1.4.2), this equals 

− 1

λ2(y1) log X

> y∈Y

q1(y)e−λ2(y1)x(y)

!

= gq1 (x; λ2(y1)) .

Step 2: innovative action value equals G(·; μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) − k. For a2 = 2, 

V2(y1, 2; x) = min  

> π∈∆( Q2×Y)

X

> (q,y )

π(q, y )x(y) + κ2(y1, 2; π)

 − k. 

By definition of κ2(y1, 2; ·), the minimization is over π with marginal πQ2 = μ2(y1), and the objective becomes 

X

> (q,y )

π(q, y )x(y) + 1

λ2(y1)DKL (π∥π02 ), π02 (q, y ) = μ2(y1)( q) q(y).

Since μ2(y1) has full support on the finite set Q2, we can write uniquely π(q, y ) = 

μ2(y1)( q) rq(y) with rq(·) ∈ ∆( Y ) for each q ∈ Q2. Then, we get P 

> (q,y )

π(q, y )x(y) = 

P 

> q

μ2(y1)( q) P 

> y

rq(y)x(y), and by the chain rule for KL under fixed marginal, DKL (π∥π02 ) = 

P 

> q∈Q2

μ2(y1)( q) DKL (rq∥q). Hence, 

V2(y1, 2; x) = X

> q∈Q2

μ2(y1)( q) min   

> rq∈∆( Y)

(X

> y

rq(y)x(y) + 1

λ2(y1)DKL (rq∥q)

)

− k. 

63 Applying (2) model-by-model yields min rq {· · · } = gq(x; λ2(y1)) above, so 

V2(y1, 2; x) = X

> q∈Q2

μ2(y1)( q) gq(x; λ2(y1)) − k = G(x; μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) − k. 

Step 3: the incentive condition and capacity. Therefore a2 = 2 is optimal at history y1 if and only if G x2(y1, ·); μ2(y1), λ 2(y1) − k ≥ gq1

 x2(y1, ·); λ2(y1), i.e., 

M  μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·) ≥ k, 

which proves the first statement. For the second statement, note that a2 = 2 is imple-mentable after y1 if and only if there exists x : Y → R such that M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x) ≥ k.By definition, C(μ, λ ) = sup x∈RY M (μ, λ ; x), so such an x exists if and only if either 

C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) > k , or C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) = k and the supremum is attained. 

## D.3 Proof of Proposition 7 

A continuation policy σ2 : Y → { 1, 2} is subgame-perfect implementable if there exists a contract ( x1, x 2) such that in some SPNE, a2(y1) = σ2(y1) for all y1.

Necessity. Suppose σ2 is implementable and fix y1 with σ2(y1) = 2. In the induced SPNE, the agent chooses a2 = 2 after y1. Then, M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·)) ≥ k by Proposition 6. In particular, there exists a finite local continuation utility vector (namely 

x2(y1, ·)) that achieves M ≥ k. Taking the supremum over all finite vectors x yields 

C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) ≥ k. Moreover, if C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) = k but the supremum were not attained, then we would have M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x) < k for all finite x, which contradicts the displayed inequality. Hence, whenever C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) = k under an implementable 

σ2(y1) = 2, the supremum must be attained. 

Sufficiency. Assume that for every y1 with σ2(y1) = 2 there exists a finite vector 

x(·) : Y → R such that M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x) ≥ k (equivalently, either C > k or C = k

attained). Construct x2 node-by-node as follows: 

• If σ2(y1) = 2, pick such an x(·) and set x2(y1, ·) = x(·). Then, Proposition 6 implies that a2 = 2 is optimal after y1.

• If σ2(y1) = 1, set x2(y1, ·) to be constant. Then M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·)) = 0 < k ,so Proposition 6 implies a2 = 1 is optimal after y1.Since the t = 2 choice after each y1 depends only on ( μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) and the vector 

x2(y1, ·), the constructed x2 makes σ2(y1) a best reply at every node. In particular, if 

σ2(y1) = 1 then M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·)) = 0 < k , so a2 = 1 is strictly optimal; if 

σ2(y1) = 2 then M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·)) ≥ k, so a2 = 2 is optimal (possibly with indifference when equality holds). Therefore, there exists a SPNE in which the agent 64 plays a2(y1) = σ2(y1) for all y1 (selecting a2 = 2 at nodes where he is indifferent). Finally, choose any x1 and let a1 be a best response at t = 1 given ( x1, x 2); then the induced equilibrium satisfies Definition 3. Hence, σ2 is subgame-perfect implementable. 

## D.4 Proof of Observation 2 

Fix ( μ, λ ) with μ(qH ) = m and μ(qL) = 1 − m, and fix T > 0. Define xT : Y → R by 

xT (0) = 0 , xT (1) = −T. 

For any Bernoulli distribution q(α) with α ∈ (0 , 1), 

gq(α)(xT ; λ) = − 1

λ log  (1 − α) + αe λT  = −T − 1

λ log  α + (1 − α)e−λT .

Therefore, for any α, β ∈ (0 , 1), 

gq(α)(xT ; λ) − gq(β)(xT ; λ) = 1

λ log β + (1 − β)e−λT 

α + (1 − α)e−λT . (66) As T → ∞ , e−λT ↓ 0, so the right-hand side converges to 1 

> λ

log( β/α ). Hence lim  

> T→∞



gqH (xT ; λ) − gq1 (xT ; λ)



= 1

λ log pθH

, lim  

> T→∞



gqL (xT ; λ) − gq1 (xT ; λ)



= 1

λ log pθL

.

By linearity of G(·; μ, λ ) in μ,lim   

> T→∞

M (μ, λ ; xT ) = 1

λ



m log pθH

+ (1 − m) log pθL



.

Since C(μ, λ ) = sup x M (μ, λ ; x) ≥ sup T > 0 M (μ, λ ; xT ), we obtain 

C(μ, λ ) ≥ lim sup  

> T→∞

M (μ, λ ; xT ) = 1

λ



m log pθH

+ (1 − m) log pθL



,

which is the desired bound. 

## D.5 Proof of Corollary 5 

Let μF := μ2(·| y1 = 0) and λF := λ2(0) = − log(1 − θL)/γ . Apply Observation 2 with (μ, λ ) = ( μF , λ F ): 

C(μF , λ F ) ≥ 1

λF



mF (θL) log pθH

+ (1 − mF (θL)) log pθL



, (67) where mF (θL) = μF (qH ) is given by (7). 

A valid lower bound on the bracket. Since θH > p , we have log( p/θ H ) < 0, and since 

mF (θL) ∈ [0 , 1], mF (θL) log pθH ≥ log pθH . Thus, the bracket in (67) satisfies 

mF (θL) log pθH

+ (1 − mF (θL)) log pθL

≥ log pθH

+ (1 − mF (θL)) log pθL

.

Moreover, mF (θL) → mF (0) := m(1 −θH )  

> m(1 −θH)+(1 −m)

< 1 as θL ↓ 0, so there exist η > 0and ¯θL ∈ (0 , p ) such that for all θL ∈ (0 , ¯θL), 1 − mF (θL) ≥ η. Also, − log(1 − θL) ≤

65 θL/(1 − θL) implies that for all sufficiently small θL, λF ≤ 2θL/γ , hence 1 /λ F ≥ γ/ (2 θL). Finally, since log( p/θ L) → +∞, shrink ¯θL if needed so that log( p/θ L) ≥ 2| log( p/θ H )|/η 

for all θL ∈ (0 , ¯θL); then log pθH + η log pθL ≥ η 

> 2

log pθL . Combining these bounds with (67), for θL ∈ (0 , ¯θL) we obtain C(μF , λ F ) ≥ 1 

> λF
> η
> 2

log pθL ≥ γ 

> 4θL

η log pθL −−→ 

> θL↓0

+∞, since log(1 /θ L)/θ L → ∞ . This proves lim θL↓0 C(μF , λ F ) = + ∞, and in particular implies that for any fixed k > 0 we can choose θL small enough so that C(μF , λ F ) ≥ k.

## D.6 Proof of Proposition 8 

Proof. Let z := x1(·)+ δV 2(·; x2), so z : Y → R. By the recursive definition (28), the agent chooses a1 = 2 if and only if V1(∅, 2; z) ≥ V 1(∅, 1; z). Under the one-step KL ambiguity indices in Section A.1, the one-step variational problems admit the standard entropic dual representations: V1(∅, 1; z) = gq1 (z; λ1) and V1(∅, 2; z) = G(z; μ1, λ 1) − k, where gq

and G are defined in (12)–(13). Therefore, 

V1(∅, 2; z) ≥ V 1(∅, 1; z) ⇐⇒ G (z; μ1, λ 1) − k ≥ gq1 (z; λ1) ⇐⇒ M (μ1, λ 1; z) ≥ k, 

which is (33). 

## D.7 Proof of Proposition 9 

Proof. Fix an implementable plan α = ( a1, σ 2). Let X (α) denote the set of dynamic contracts ( x1, x 2) that subgame-perfectly implement α and satisfy the t = 1 participation constraint V1(x1, x 2) ≥ U0.

Step 0 (Existence for fixed α). Write the principal’s expected wage cost (the negative of the profit term involving h in (34)) as 

f (x1, x 2) := X

> y1∈Y

¯qα 

> 1

(y1) h x1(y1) + X

> y1∈Y

X

> y2∈Y

¯qα 

> 1

(y1)¯ qα 

> 2

(y2|y1) h x2(y1, y 2).

Under Section 5.1, all mean probabilities are strictly positive, so every coordinate of x1

and x2 appears in f with strictly positive weight. The map f is continuous. The implementability conditions defining X (α) can be written as a finite list of inequalities involving the continuous maps M (·) and the continuation values V2(·; x2)(Propositions 6 and 8), together with V1(x1, x 2) ≥ U0. Hence, X (α) is closed. Since α is implementable, X (α)̸ = ∅; pick ( x01, x 02) ∈ X (α) and set C0 := f (x01, x 02). Consider the nonempty sublevel set eX (α) := X (α) ∩ { (x1, x 2) : f (x1, x 2) ≤ C0}. We show 

eX (α) is bounded. 

A preliminary bound. Let q > 0 denote the minimum, over all y ∈ Y , of the strictly positive probabilities assigned to y by q1 and by each q ∈ Q2 (full support and finiteness). 66 For any one-step entropic certainty equivalent gq(·; λ) and any vector z : Y → R,

gq(z; λ) = − 1

λ log X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λz (y)

!

≤ min  

> y∈Y

z(y) − 1

λ log( q), (68) because P 

> y

q(y)e−λz (y) ≥ q e −λ min z .

Lower bounds on the effective t = 1 payoffs. Fix ( x1, x 2) ∈ eX (α) and define the imple-mented t = 2 continuation values V2(y1) := V2(y1; x2) = V2(y1, σ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·)). Form the t = 1 effective payoff vector z(y1) := x1(y1) + δV 2(y1). Since ( x1, x 2) ∈ X (α) and 

V1(x1, x 2) ≥ U0, the value of the implemented t = 1 action is at least U0; in particular, it equals either gq1 (z; λ1) or G(z; μ1, λ 1)−k depending on a1. In both cases, the implemented value is an average of terms of the form gq(z; λ1) (up to the constant −k). Applying (68) yields a constant Lz ∈ R (depending only on ( U0, λ 1, k, q ) and on a1) such that 

z(y1) ≥ Lz ∀y1 ∈ Y, ∀(x1, x 2) ∈ eX (α). (69) 

Lower bounds on x2 (using Assumption 2). For each y1, the implemented continuation value V2(y1) is built from one-step certainty equivalents (see, (8)–(9)). In particular, applying (68) node-by-node at t = 2 implies that, for each y1,

V2(y1) ≤ min  

> y2∈Y

x2(y1, y 2) − 1

λ2(y1) log( q), (70) because V2(y1) = gq1 (·; λ2(y1)) when σ2(y1) = 1 and V2(y1) = G(·; μ2(·| y1), λ 2(y1)) − k

when σ2(y1) = 2, and the −k term only strengthens the inequality. Define λ2 := min y1∈Y λ2(y1) > 0 and the finite constant B2 := − 1

> λ2

log( q) ≥ 0. Then, (70) implies V2(y1) ≤ min y2 x2(y1, y 2) + B2 for all y1. We now show that x2 is uniformly bounded below on eX (α). For any ( x1, x 2) ∈ eX (α) and any y1 ∈ Y , define the node-wise minimum m(y1) := min y2∈Y x2(y1, y 2). By (70), V2(y1) ≤ m(y1) + B2, hence by (69), 

x1(y1) = z(y1) − δV 2(y1) ≥ Lz − δ(m(y1) + B2) = A − δ m (y1), A := Lz − δB 2. (71) Moreover, since x2(y1, y 2) ≥ m(y1) for all y2 and h is increasing, 

X

> y2∈Y

¯qα 

> 2

(y2|y1) h x2(y1, y 2) ≥ h m(y1).

Therefore the contribution of history y1 to the wage cost satisfies ¯qα 

> 1

(y1) h x1(y1)+ ¯ qα 

> 1

(y1) X

> y2∈Y

¯qα 

> 2

(y2|y1) h x2(y1, y 2) ≥ ¯qα 

> 1

(y1)



h(A−δm (y1))+ h(m(y1)) 



.

Define ϕ(m) := h(A−δm )+ h(m). The map ϕ is continuous. We claim that ϕ(m) → +∞

as |m| → ∞ . First, Assumption 2 implies h′(+ ∞) > 1 

> δ

h′(−∞ ). Pick finite numbers 

s−, s + such that h′(−∞ ) < s − and s− 

> δ

< s + < h ′(+ ∞), which exist because s− ∈

(h′(−∞ ), δh ′(+ ∞)) can be chosen and then s− 

> δ

< h ′(+ ∞). By convexity of h, the one-sided derivatives are monotone, and by the definitions of h′(−∞ ) and h′(+ ∞) there exists 

M > 0 such that h′−(−M ) ≤ s− and h′

> +

(M ) ≥ s+.67 Using supporting-line inequalities for convex functions, for all x ≥ M , h(x) ≥ h(M )+ 

h′

> +

(M )( x − M ), and for all x ≤ − M , h(x) ≥ h(−M ) + h′−(−M )( x + M ). If m → +∞,then for all large m we have m ≥ M and A − δm ≤ − M , so 

ϕ(m) = h(A−δm )+ h(m) ≥  h′−(−M )( A−δm +M )+ h(−M )+ h′

> +

(M )( m−M )+ h(M ).

The coefficient on m in the resulting affine lower bound is h′

> +

(M )−δh ′−(−M ) ≥ s+−δs − >

0, so ϕ(m) → +∞ as m → +∞.If m → −∞ , write t := −m → +∞. For all large t, we have A + δt ≥ M and 

−t ≤ − M , hence 

ϕ(m) = h(A+δt )+ h(−t) ≥  h(M )+ h′

> +

(M )( A+δt −M )+ h(−M )+ h′−(−M )( −t+M ).

The coefficient on t is δh ′

> +

(M ) − h′−(−M ) ≥ δs + − s− > 0, so ϕ(m) → +∞ as m → −∞ 

as well. Hence, ϕ := min m∈R ϕ(m) > −∞ .Suppose toward a contradiction that there exists ( xn 

> 1

, x n 

> 2

) ∈ eX (α) with min y1,y 2 xn 

> 2

(y1, y 2) →−∞ . Pick ( yn 

> 1

, y n 

> 2

) attaining this minimum and set tn := −xn 

> 2

(yn 

> 1

, y n 

> 2

) → +∞. Then, 

mn(yn 

> 1

) = xn 

> 2

(yn 

> 1

, y n 

> 2

) = −tn, so ϕ(mn(yn 

> 1

)) = h(A + δt n) + h(−tn) → +∞. Using the node-wise lower bound above and qα 

> 1

:= min y1 ¯qα 

> 1

(y1) > 0, we obtain 

f (xn 

> 1

, x n 

> 2

) ≥ ¯qα 

> 1

(yn 

> 1

)ϕ(mn(yn 

> 1

)) + X 

> y1̸=yn
> 1

¯qα 

> 1

(y1)ϕ ≥ qα 

> 1

ϕ(mn(yn 

> 1

)) + (1 − qα 

> 1

)ϕ −−−→ 

> n→∞

+∞,

contradicting f (xn 

> 1

, x n 

> 2

) ≤ C0. Therefore, x2 is uniformly bounded below on eX (α). 

— Lower bounds on x1. Suppose, toward a contradiction, that there exists a sequence (xn 

> 1

, x n 

> 2

) ∈ eX (α) and a node yn 

> 1

such that xn 

> 1

(yn 

> 1

) → −∞ . Let tn := −xn 

> 1

(yn 

> 1

) → +∞. By (69), δV n 

> 2

(yn 

> 1

) = zn(yn 

> 1

)−xn 

> 1

(yn 

> 1

) ≥ Lz +tn, so V n 

> 2

(yn 

> 1

) ≥ Lz +tn 

> δ

. Applying (68) at t = 2 (and using that V2(y1) equals either gq1 or G − k) implies that min y2 xn 

> 2

(yn 

> 1

, y 2) ≥ V n 

> 2

(yn 

> 1

) − B2,hence min y2 xn 

> 2

(yn 

> 1

, y 2) → +∞. Since u(w) → +∞ as w → +∞, we have h(x) → +∞ as 

x → +∞. Therefore the second-period contribution to f (xn 

> 1

, x n 

> 2

) at history yn 

> 1

diverges to + ∞, contradicting f (xn 

> 1

, x n 

> 2

) ≤ C0. Hence, x1 is uniformly bounded below on eX (α). 

— Upper bounds. Let L be a uniform lower bound on all coordinates of ( x1, x 2) on 

eX (α) above. Fix any coordinate i of the finite-dimensional vector ( x1, x 2) and let wi > 0denote its weight in f . Let Bi := P  

> j̸=i

wj h(L), which is finite. For any ( x1, x 2) ∈ eX (α), monotonicity of h implies f (x1, x 2) ≥ wi h(xi) + Bi. Since also f (x1, x 2) ≤ C0, we obtain 

h(xi) ≤ (C0 − Bi)/w i, hence xi ≤ u C0−Bi

> wi

. Since there are finitely many coordinates, all components of ( x1, x 2) are uniformly bounded above on eX (α). Hence, eX (α) is bounded. Being also closed, it is compact in finite dimension. By Weierstrass, the continuous function f attains its minimum on eX (α), hence on X (α). Equivalently, profit is maximized over contracts implementing α.

Step 1: IR binds. Let ( x1, x 2) ∈ X (α) minimize f . If V1(x1, x 2) > U 0, define the translated contract ( xt

> 1

, x t

> 2

) := ( x1 − t, x 2 − t), where the subtraction is componentwise. 68 By translation invariance of gq(·; λ) and G(·; μ, λ ) (immediate from (12)–(13)) and the recursive definitions (27)–(28), all action comparisons (and thus implementability of α)are unchanged by a common translation, while the ex ante value decreases continuously in t. Choose t > 0 so that V1(xt

> 1

, x t

> 2

) ≥ U0 (possible since V1(x1, x 2) > U 0 and continuity). Since h is strictly increasing and all mean probabilities are strictly positive, f (xt

> 1

, x t

> 2

) <f (x1, x 2), contradicting minimality. Hence, at any optimum, V1(x1, x 2) = U0.

Step 2: Local t = 2 IC binds at innovation nodes. Fix y1 with σ2(y1) = 2 and write 

x(·) := x2(y1, ·), μ := μ2(y1), λ := λ2(y1). By Proposition 6, implementability of σ2(y1) = 2 requires M (μ, λ ; x) ≥ k. Suppose the inequality is strict: M (μ, λ ; x) > k .Let t := G(x; μ, λ ) and let ¯ x := t · 1 be the constant vector on Y . Note that 

G(¯ x; μ, λ ) = t and gq1 (¯ x; λ) = t, hence M (μ, λ ; ¯ x) = 0. For θ ∈ [0 , 1] define the convex combination xθ := θx + (1 − θ)¯ x. Continuity of 

M (μ, λ ; ·) implies θ 7 → M (μ, λ ; xθ) is continuous, with M (μ, λ ; x1) = M (μ, λ ; x) > k and 

M (μ, λ ; x0) = 0 < k . Therefore there exists θ⋆ ∈ (0 , 1) such that 

M (μ, λ ; xθ⋆

) = k. (72) Thus, replacing x2(y1, ·) by xθ⋆

preserves σ2(y1) = 2 at that node and makes the local inequality bind. We now show this replacement strictly lowers the principal’s wage cost while weakly 

increasing the agent’s continuation value at y1, so the modification can be extended to a global improvement without affecting any other incentive constraint. 

(i) Continuation value does not fall. Since G(·; μ, λ ) is concave and G(¯ x; μ, λ ) = 

t = G(x; μ, λ ), G(xθ⋆

; μ, λ ) ≥ θ⋆G(x; μ, λ ) + (1 − θ⋆)G(¯ x; μ, λ ) = G(x; μ, λ ). Hence, the implemented t = 2 continuation value at y1, V2(y1) = G(·; μ, λ ) − k, weakly increases under the replacement. 

(ii) Expected wage cost at node y1 strictly falls. Let ¯ q(·) := ¯ qα 

> 2

(·| y1) be the principal’s mean distribution at this node. For each q ∈ Q2, Jensen’s inequality for the convex map s 7 → e−λs gives gq(x; λ) ≤ P 

> y

q(y)x(y), so averaging over μ yields G(x; μ, λ ) ≤

P 

> y

¯q(y)x(y). Since h is strictly increasing and strictly convex, 

h(t) = h(G(x; μ, λ )) ≤ h X

> y

¯q(y)x(y)

!

< X

> y

¯q(y)h(x(y)) ,

where the strict inequality is Jensen (and x cannot be constant since M (μ, λ ; x) > k > 0and ¯ q has full support). By convexity of h applied pointwise, h(xθ⋆

(y)) ≤ θ⋆h(x(y)) + (1 − θ⋆)h(t) for each y, hence 

X

> y

¯q(y)h(xθ⋆

(y)) ≤ θ⋆ X

> y

¯q(y)h(x(y)) + (1 − θ⋆)h(t) < X

> y

¯q(y)h(x(y)) .

Thus, the principal’s expected wage cost strictly falls at node y1.69 (iii) Preserve global implementability and IR. Since the replacement weakly raises 

V2(y1), define ∆ := V new 2 (y1) − V2(y1) ≥ 0. Modify period-1 utility at this history by setting xnew 1 (y1) := x1(y1) − δ∆ and leaving all other components unchanged. Then, the 

t = 1 effective payoff vector z(·) = x1(·) + δV 2(·) is unchanged, so the t = 1 best response (and participation value) are unchanged; in particular, α remains implemented and V1

remains U0 (Step 1). Since h is strictly increasing, the decrease in x1(y1) weakly reduces expected wage cost in period 1, and combining with (ii) yields a strict reduction in f ,contradicting optimality. Therefore the local inequality cannot be strict at an optimum; it must bind at each y1 with σ2(y1) = 2. 

Step 3: Full insurance at safe nodes. Fix y1 with σ2(y1) = 1 and write x(·) := x2(y1, ·) and 

λ := λ2(y1). Under σ2(y1) = 1, the implemented continuation value is V2(y1) = gq1 (x; λ). Let ¯ x := V2(y1) · 1, so gq1 (¯ x; λ) = V2(y1). Hence, replacing x by ¯ x leaves the agent’s continuation value at y1 unchanged and yields M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); ¯ x) = 0 < k , so a2 = 1 remains optimal at that node. Moreover, when σ2(y1) = 1 the principal’s mean distribution at t = 2 is ¯ qα 

> 2

(·| y1) = q1,so the wage cost at the node is P 

> y

q1(y)h(x(y)). As above, Jensen implies gq1 (x; λ) ≤

P 

> y

q1(y)x(y), hence by monotonicity and convexity, 

X

> y

q1(y)h(x(y)) ≥ h X

> y

q1(y)x(y)

!

≥ h gq1 (x; λ) = X

> y

q1(y)h(¯ x(y)) ,

with strict inequality whenever x is nonconstant. Therefore at an optimum we may take 

x2(y1, 1) = x2(y1, 0) for every y1 with σ2(y1) = 1. Steps 1–3 establish items (i)–(iii) of Proposition 9. 

## D.8 Proof of Corollary 6 

Proof. An action plan is α = ( a1, σ 2) with a1 ∈ { 1, 2} and σ2 : Y → { 1, 2}. Since Y is finite, the set of all such plans is finite. For any fixed plan α that is subgame-perfectly implementable, Proposition 9 implies that the principal’s problem of choosing a contract that implements α and satisfies V1(x1, x 2) ≥ U0 admits an optimizer (i.e., a wage-cost minimizer for that plan). Therefore, the principal’s original problem admits an optimal solution by taking the maximum over the finite collection of implementable plans. 

## D.9 Proof of Proposition 10 

Proof. Fix δ ∈ (0 , 1) and an infinite-horizon contract ( xt)t≥1 that is bounded, i.e., sup t≥1 sup st∈St sup y∈Y |xt(st, y )| < ∞. Fix a metric d on R+ = [0 , +∞] satisfying (i)–(iii) in Appendix B.2. Fix a realized private history sequence ( ht)t≥1 and ( μ∞, λ ∞) satisfying (43). Recall the public projection χt : Ht → St.70 Step 1: One-step Lipschitz property in payoffs. Fix q ∈ ∆( Y ) and λ ∈ R+. For any payoff vectors z, z ′ : Y → R,

gq(z; λ) − gq(z′; λ) ≤ ∥ z − z′∥∞. (73) Consequently, for any a ∈ { 1, 2} and any ( μ, λ ) ∈ ∆( Q2) × R+,

Ga(z; μ, λ ) − G a(z′; μ, λ ) ≤ ∥ z − z′∥∞. (74) 

Proof of (73) . If λ ∈ (0 , ∞), set d0 := ∥z − z′∥∞. Then, z(y) ≤ z′(y) + d0 for all y,hence e−λz (y) ≥ e−λd 0 e−λz ′(y) and so P 

> y

q(y)e−λz (y) ≥ e−λd 0 P 

> y

q(y)e−λz ′(y). Applying 

−(1 /λ ) log( ·) yields gq(z; λ) ≤ gq(z′; λ) + d0; swapping z, z ′ gives the reverse inequality, hence |gq(z; λ) − gq(z′; λ)| ≤ d0.If λ = 0, then gq(z; 0) = P 

> y

q(y)z(y) by (40), so |gq(z; 0) − gq(z′; 0) | ≤ ∥ z − z′∥∞.If λ = + ∞, then gq(z; + ∞) = min y z(y), so | min y z(y) − min y z′(y)| ≤ ∥ z − z′∥∞. This proves (73). eq. (74) follows by averaging across q (for a = 2) and noting that a = 1 is 

gq1 (independent of μ). ■

Step 2: Contraction of the date-t Bellman operator. For each t ≥ 1, define an operator 

Tt on bounded functions W : Ht+1 → R by (TtW )( ht) := max 

> a∈{ 1,2}

n

Ga



y 7 → xt(χt(ht), y ) + δW (ht, a, y ); μt(ht), λ t(ht)



− c(a)

o

.

Then, (41) is Wt = TtWt+1 . By (74), for any bounded W, W ′,

∥T tW − T tW ′∥∞ ≤ δ∥W − W ′∥∞. (75) 

Step 3: Existence and uniqueness of bounded solutions (part (a)). Let ¯ x := sup t,s t,y |xt(st, y )| <

∞ and ¯ c := max {c(1) , c (2) } = k. Set 

B := ¯x + ¯ c

1 − δ . (76) For each finite horizon T ≥ 1, define the truncated value functions ( W Tt )T +1  

> t=1

by W TT +1 ≡ 0and for t = T, T − 1, . . . , 1, 

W Tt := TtW Tt+1 .

We first show by backward induction that ∥W Tt ∥∞ ≤ B for all t ≤ T + 1. Note that 

∥W TT +1 ∥∞ = 0 ≤ B. Suppose ∥W Tt+1 ∥∞ ≤ B. Then, for each ht and a ∈ { 1, 2}, the vector 

y 7 → xt(χt(ht), y ) + δW Tt+1 (ht, a, y ) lies in [ −(¯ x + δB ), ¯x + δB ]Y . By (74) with z′ ≡ 0 and 

|G a(0; ·)| = 0, we obtain Ga

 y 7 → xt(χt(ht), y ) + δW Tt+1 (ht, a, y ); μt(ht), λ t(ht) ≤ ¯x + δB. 

Therefore, using c(a) ≤ ¯c and the definition of Tt, |W Tt (ht)| ≤ max a∈{ 1,2}

(¯ x+δB )+ ¯ c =¯x + ¯ c + δB = B, where the last equality uses (76). Hence, ∥W Tt ∥∞ ≤ B.Now fix t ≥ 1 and take T ′ > T ≥ t. Applying the contraction bound (75) iteratively from date t up to date T yields 

∥W T ′ 

> t

− W Tt ∥∞ = ∥T t · · · T T W T ′  

> T+1

− T t · · · T T W TT +1 ∥∞ ≤ δT +1 −t ∥W T ′  

> T+1

− W TT +1 ∥∞.

71 Since W TT +1 ≡ 0 and ∥W T ′ 

> T+1

∥∞ ≤ B, we obtain 

∥W T ′ 

> t

− W Tt ∥∞ ≤ δT +1 −t B. (77) Thus, ( W Tt )T ≥t is Cauchy in the Banach space of bounded functions on Ht, hence con-verges to some bounded function Wt. Letting T ′ → ∞ in (77) gives 

∥Wt − W Tt ∥∞ ≤ δT +1 −tB for all T ≥ t. (78) To verify that ( Wt)t≥1 satisfies (41), fix t and note that W Tt = TtW Tt+1 for all T ≥ t + 1. Taking T → ∞ and using that Tt is δ-Lipschitz under the sup norm by (75), we obtain 

Wt = TtWt+1 . Hence, (41) holds. Uniqueness: if ( fWt) is another bounded solution, then by (75), 

∥Wt − fWt∥∞ = ∥T tWt+1 − T t fWt+1 ∥∞ ≤ δ∥Wt+1 − fWt+1 ∥∞ ≤ · · · ≤ δn∥Wt+n − fWt+n∥∞.

Since both sequences are bounded and δn → 0, we conclude ∥Wt − fWt∥∞ = 0. This proves part (a). 

Step 4: Uniform continuity on bounded domains. Fix B0 < ∞ and consider the domain 

DB0 := ∆( Q2) × R+ × [−B0, B 0]Y

equipped with the product metric ∥μ − μ′∥1 + d(λ, λ ′) + ∥z − z′∥∞.

Lemma 12. For each a ∈ { 1, 2}, the map Φa(μ, λ, z ) := Ga(z; μ, λ ) is continuous on DB0

and therefore uniformly continuous. Equivalently: for every ε > 0 there exists ρ > 0 such that if ∥μ−μ′∥1 < ρ , d(λ, λ ′) < ρ , and ∥z −z′∥∞ < ρ , then Ga(z; μ, λ )−G a(z′; μ′, λ ′) < ε. 

Proof of Lemma 12 . For a = 1, G1(z; μ, λ ) = gq1 (z; λ) does not depend on μ. Continuity in z is immediate from (73). It remains to show continuity in λ ∈ R+.Fix q ∈ ∆( Y ) and z ∈ [−B0, B 0]Y . For λ ∈ (0 , ∞), set S(λ) := P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λz (y),so gq(z; λ) = −(1 /λ ) log S(λ). Since S is C1 on (0 , ∞), gq is continuous on (0 , ∞). We check continuity at the endpoints, which match (40). 

As λ ↓ 0. We have S(0) = 1 and S′(λ) = − P 

> y

q(y)z(y)e−λz (y), so S′(0) = 

− P 

> y

q(y)z(y). Since log S(λ) → 0 as λ ↓ 0, by l’Hˆ opital’s rule, lim  

> λ↓0

gq(z; λ) = − lim 

> λ↓0

log S(λ)

λ = − lim 

> λ↓0

S′(λ)/S (λ)1 = −S′(0) 

S(0) = X

> y∈Y

q(y)z(y) = gq(z; 0) .

As λ ↑ ∞ . Let m := min y∈Y z(y) and write z(y) = m + ∆(y) with ∆(y) ≥ 0. Then 

S(λ) = e−λm X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ∆ (y), gq(z; λ) = m − 1

λ log 

 X 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ∆ (y)



.

Let Y∗ := {y : ∆(y) = 0} be the (nonempty) argmin set. Since q has full sup-port, P 

> y∈Y∗

q(y) ∈ (0 , 1]. Moreover, for all λ ≥ 0, P 

> y∈Y∗

q(y) ≤ P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ∆ (y) ≤

P 

> y∈Y

q(y) = 1 . Taking logs and dividing by λ yields a quantity between 1 

> λ

log P 

> y∈Y∗

q(y)and 0, which converges to 0 as λ → ∞ . Hence, lim λ↑∞ gq(z; λ) = m = gq(z; + ∞). 72 To verify joint continuity at λ = + ∞, we show this convergence is uniform over the compact domain. Define qmin := min q∈Q2∪{ q1} min y∈Y q(y) > 0. Since qmin ≤

P 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ∆ (y) ≤ 1 for all λ ≥ 0, q ∈ Q2 ∪ { q1}, and z ∈ [−B0, B 0]Y , we obtain 

gq(z; λ) − gq(z; + ∞) = 1

λ log 

 X 

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λ∆ (y)



≤ | log qmin |

λ

for all λ > 0. This bound is independent of ( q, z ) and vanishes as λ → +∞, so the convergence gq(z; λ) → gq(z; + ∞) is uniform over ( q, z ) ∈ (Q2 ∪ { q1}) × [−B0, B 0]Y .Thus, gq(z; λ) is jointly continuous on ( Q2 ∪ { q1}) × [−B0, B 0]Y × R+ when R+

is endowed with any metric d satisfying (ii)–(iii), since these conditions ensure that d-convergence agrees with the usual boundary notions λ ↓ 0 and λ ↑ ∞ .For a = 2, G2(z; μ, λ ) = P 

> q∈Q2

μ(q)gq(z; λ) is a finite sum of products of continuous functions in ( μ, λ, z ), hence continuous on DB0 as well. Finally, ∆( Q2) is compact, [ −B0, B 0]Y is compact, and ( R+, d ) is compact by (i), so 

DB0 is compact. By Heine–Cantor’s theorem, Φ a is uniformly continuous on DB0 . ■

Step 5: The limiting recursion and its truncation error. Define the limiting Bellman operators T ∞ 

> t

on bounded W : Ht+1 → R by (T ∞ 

> t

W )( ht) := max 

> a∈{ 1,2}

n

Ga



y 7 → xt(χt(ht), y ) + δW (ht, a, y ); μ∞, λ ∞



− c(a)

o

.

By the same argument as in Steps 2–3 (replacing Tt by T ∞ 

> t

), the recursion W ∞ 

> t

= T ∞ 

> t

W ∞

> t+1

admits a unique bounded solution. Defining the finite-horizon truncations ( W ∞,T t )T +1  

> t=1

by 

W ∞,T T +1 ≡ 0 and W ∞,T t := T ∞ 

> t

W ∞,T t+1 for t ≤ T , we obtain the analogue of (78): 

∥W ∞ 

> t

− W ∞,T t ∥∞ ≤ δT +1 −tB for all T ≥ t. (79) 

Step 6: Pathwise convergence Wt(ht) → W ∞ 

> t

(ht) (part (b)). Fix an integer N ≥ 0 and set T := t + N (so T − t = N ). Consider the finite-horizon truncations W T = ( W Ts )s≤T +1 

and W ∞,T = ( W ∞,T s )s≤T +1 . For s ∈ { t, t + 1 , . . . , T }, define the set of continuation contingencies at date s from ht by Hst,N (ht) := Ht,N (ht) ∩ Hs, where Ht,N (ht) is defined in (42). Define the date-s worst-case truncation error on this finite set by 

et,N s := sup  

> ˜hs∈H st,N (ht)

W Ts (˜hs) − W ∞,T s (˜hs) .

Note that et,N T +1 = 0 because W TT +1 = W ∞,T T +1 ≡ 0. 

Step 6.1: A finite-horizon error recursion. Fix s ∈ { t, . . . , T } and ˜hs ∈ H st,N (ht). Using 

W Ts = TsW Ts+1 and W ∞,T s = T ∞ 

> s

W ∞,T s+1 , we write 

W Ts (˜hs) − W ∞,T s (˜hs) ≤  TsW Ts+1 

(˜hs) −  TsW ∞,T s+1 

(˜hs) +  TsW ∞,T s+1 

(˜hs) −  T ∞ 

> s

W ∞,T s+1 

(˜hs) .

We bound the first term using (74). For each a ∈ { 1, 2} define 

zTs,a (˜hs)( y) := xs(χs(˜hs), y )+ δW Ts+1 (˜hs, a, y ), z∞,T s,a (˜hs)( y) := xs(χs(˜hs), y )+ δW ∞,T s+1 (˜hs, a, y ).

73 Then, for each a,

Ga

 zTs,a (˜hs); μs(˜hs), λ s(˜hs) − G a

 z∞,T s,a (˜hs); μs(˜hs), λ s(˜hs) ≤ ∥ zTs,a (˜hs) − z∞,T s,a (˜hs)∥∞

= δ sup 

> y∈Y

W Ts+1 (˜hs, a, y ) − W ∞,T s+1 (˜hs, a, y ) .

Taking the maximum over a yields 

 TsW Ts+1 

(˜hs) −  TsW ∞,T s+1 

(˜hs) ≤ δ sup 

> a∈{ 1,2}

sup 

> y∈Y

W Ts+1 (˜hs, a, y ) − W ∞,T s+1 (˜hs, a, y ) .

Since ( ˜hs, a, y ) ∈ H s+1  

> t,N

(ht) whenever ˜hs ∈ H st,N (ht), we have sup 

> a∈{ 1,2}

sup 

> y∈Y

W Ts+1 (˜hs, a, y ) − W ∞,T s+1 (˜hs, a, y ) ≤ et,N s+1 .

Hence  TsW Ts+1 

(˜hs) −  TsW ∞,T s+1 

(˜hs) ≤ δ e t,N s+1 . (80) For the second term, define 

ηt,N s := sup  

> ˜hs∈H st,N (ht)

max 

> a∈{ 1,2}

Ga

 z∞,T s,a (˜hs); μs(˜hs), λ s(˜hs) − G a

 z∞,T s,a (˜hs); μ∞, λ ∞

 .

Then, by definition of Ts and T ∞ 

> s

as maxima over a of the same cost-adjusted terms, we have for each ˜hs,  TsW ∞,T s+1 

(˜hs) −  T ∞ 

> s

W ∞,T s+1 

(˜hs) ≤ ηt,N s . Combining with (80) and taking the supremum over ˜hs ∈ H st,N (ht) yields the finite-horizon error recursion 

et,N s ≤ δ e t,N s+1 + ηt,N s for s = t, t + 1 , . . . , T, (81) with terminal condition et,N T +1 = 0. Iterating (81) forward from s = t to s = T gives the explicit bound 

et,N t ≤

> N

X

> j=0

δj ηt,N t+j . (82) 

Step 6.2: Control of ηt,N s . Let ¯W := B from (76). From the construction of W ∞,T in Step 5 and the same bound argument as in Step 3, we have ∥W ∞,T s ∥∞ ≤ B for all s ≤ T + 1. Define B′ := ¯ x + δB. Then, for all s ≤ T , all ˜hs ∈ Hs, and all a ∈ { 1, 2}, the vector 

z∞,T s,a (˜hs) lies in [ −B′, B ′]Y . Fix ε > 0. Apply Lemma 12 with B0 = B′ to obtain ρ > 0such that if ∥μ − μ∞∥1 < ρ and d(λ, λ ∞) < ρ , then 

Ga(z; μ, λ ) − G a(z; μ∞, λ ∞) < ε (1 − δ) for all a ∈ { 1, 2} and all z ∈ [−B′, B ′]Y .

Fix the horizon N . By the local state convergence assumption (43), there exists Tε such that for all t ≥ Tε, sup ˜h∈H t,N (ht) ∥μ|˜h|(˜h) − μ∞∥1 < ρ, and sup ˜h∈H t,N (ht) d λ|˜h|(˜h), λ ∞

 < ρ. 

In particular, for all t ≥ Tε, for all s ∈ { t, . . . , t + N }, and all ˜hs ∈ H st,N (ht), we have ∥μs(˜hs) − μ∞∥1 < ρ and d(λs(˜hs), λ ∞) < ρ . Therefore, for all such ( s, ˜hs) and all 

a ∈ { 1, 2}, Ga

 z∞,T s,a (˜hs); μs(˜hs), λ s(˜hs) − G a

 z∞,T s,a (˜hs); μ∞, λ ∞

 < ε (1 − δ). Taking the 74 maximum over a and the supremum over ˜hs ∈ H st,N (ht) yields 

ηt,N s ≤ ε(1 − δ) for all s = t, t + 1 , . . . , t + N whenever t ≥ Tε.

Plugging into (82) gives, for t ≥ Tε, et,N t ≤ PNj=0 δj ε(1 − δ) ≤ ε. 

Step 6.3: Conclude the infinite-horizon. Fix ε′ > 0. We combine the truncation error from Step 3 with the finite-horizon operator error from Step 6.2. 

Step (i): Choose truncation horizon. Select N large enough so that 2 δN +1 B < ε ′/3.

Step (ii): Apply Step 6.2 with ε := ε′/3. By Step 6.2 (with the choice ε := ε′/3), there exists Tε′ such that for all t ≥ Tε′ , et,N t = sup ˜ht∈H tt,N (ht) W t+Nt (˜ht) − W ∞,t +Nt (˜ht) ≤ ε′/3.

In particular, W t+Nt (ht) − W ∞,t +Nt (ht) < ε ′/3 for all t ≥ Tε′ .

Step (iii): Apply the bounds. By (78) and (79) with T = t + N , for all t ≥ 1, 

|Wt(ht) − W t+Nt (ht)| ≤ δN +1 B < ε ′/6, |W ∞ 

> t

(ht) − W ∞,t +Nt (ht)| ≤ δN +1 B < ε ′/6.

Step (iv): Combine via the triangle inequality. For all t ≥ Tε′ ,

|Wt(ht) − W ∞ 

> t

(ht)| ≤ | Wt(ht) − W t+Nt (ht)| + |W t+Nt (ht) − W ∞,t +Nt (ht)| + |W ∞,t +Nt (ht) − W ∞ 

> t

(ht)|≤ ε′/6 + ε′/3 + ε′/6 = 2 ε′/3 < ε ′.

Since ε′ > 0 was arbitrary, |Wt(ht) − W ∞ 

> t

(ht)| → 0 as t → ∞ , proving part (b). 

# References 

Anderson, P. and Tushman, M. L. (2018). Technological discontinuities and dominant designs: A cyclical model of technological change. In Organizational innovation , pages 373–402. Routledge. Aydogan, I., Berger, L., Bosetti, V., and Liu, N. (2023). Three layers of uncertainty. 

Journal of the European Economic Association , 21(5):2209–2236. Berk, R. H. (1966). Limiting behavior of posterior distributions when the model is incorrect. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics , 37(1):51–58. Bewley, T. F. (2002). Knightian decision theory. part i. Decisions in economics and finance , 25:79–110. Carroll, G. (2015). Robustness and linear contracts. American Economic Review ,105(2):536–563. Carroll, G. (2019). Robustness in mechanism design and contracting. Annual Review of Economics , 11(1):139–166. 75 Castelvecchi, D. (2023). How would room-temperature superconductors change science? 

Nature , 621(7977):18–19. News. Cerreia-Vioglio, S., Hansen, L. P., Maccheroni, F., and Marinacci, M. (2025). Making decisions under model misspecification. Review of Economic Studies , page rdaf046. Dupuis, P. and Ellis, R. S. (1997). A Weak Convergence Approach to the Theory of Large Deviations , volume 313. John Wiley & Sons. D¨ utting, P., Feldman, M., Peretz, D., and Samuelson, L. (2024). Ambiguous contracts. 

Econometrica , 92(6):1967–1992. Ederer, F. and Manso, G. (2013). Is pay for performance detrimental to innovation? 

Management Science , 59(7):1496–1513. Ely, J. C., Georgiadis, G., and Rayo, L. (2025). Feedback design in dynamic moral hazard. 

Econometrica , 93(2):597–621. Esponda, I. and Pouzo, D. (2016). Berk–Nash equilibrium: A framework for modeling agents with misspecified models. Econometrica , 84(3):1093–1130. Ewens, M. and Marx, M. (2018). Founder replacement and startup performance. The Review of Financial Studies , 31(4):1532–1565. Foutz, R. V. and Srivastava, R. (1977). The performance of the likelihood ratio test when the model is incorrect. The annals of Statistics , pages 1183–1194. Fudenberg, D., Romanyuk, G., and Strack, P. (2017). Active learning with a misspecified prior. Theoretical Economics , 12(3):1155–1189. Garisto, D. (2023a). Claimed superconductor lk-99 is an online sensation—but replication efforts fall short. Nature , 620(7973):253–253. Garisto, D. (2023b). Lk-99 isn’t a superconductor—how science sleuths solved the mys-tery. Nature , 620(7975):705–706. Ghirardato, P. (1994). Agency theory with non-additive uncertainty. Technical report, mimeo, http://web. econ. unito. it/gma/paolo/age. pdf. Gilboa, I. and Schmeidler, D. (1989). Maxmin expected utility with non-unique prior. 

Journal of mathematical economics , 18(2):141–153. Grossman, S. J. and Hart, O. D. (1983). An analysis of the principal-agent problem. 

Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society , pages 7–45. 76 Hansen, L. and Sargent, T. J. (2001). Robust control and model uncertainty. American Economic Review , 91(2):60–66. Hansen, L. P. (2014). Nobel lecture: Uncertainty outside and inside economic models. 

Journal of Political Economy , 122(5):945–987. Kellner, C. (2015). Tournaments as a response to ambiguity aversion in incentive con-tracts. Journal of Economic Theory , 159:627–655. Kellner, C. (2017). The principal-agent problem with smooth ambiguity. Review of Economic Design , 21(2):83–119. Klibanoff, P., Marinacci, M., and Mukerji, S. (2005). A smooth model of decision making under ambiguity. Econometrica , 73(6):1849–1892. Klibanoff, P., Marinacci, M., and Mukerji, S. (2009). Recursive smooth ambiguity pref-erences. Journal of Economic Theory , 144(3):930–976. Lanzani, G. (2025). Dynamic concern for misspecification. Econometrica , 93(4):1333– 1370. Lee, S., Kim, J.-H., and Kwon, Y.-W. (2023). The first room-temperature ambient-pressure superconductor. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.12008 .Loch, C. H., DeMeyer, A., and Pich, M. (2011). Managing the unknown: A new approach to managing high uncertainty and risk in projects . John Wiley & Sons. Lopomo, G., Rigotti, L., and Shannon, C. (2011). Knightian uncertainty and moral hazard. Journal of Economic Theory , 146(3):1148–1172. Maccheroni, F., Marinacci, M., and Rustichini, A. (2006a). Ambiguity aversion, robust-ness, and the variational representation of preferences. Econometrica , 74(6):1447–1498. Maccheroni, F., Marinacci, M., and Rustichini, A. (2006b). Dynamic variational prefer-ences. Journal of Economic Theory , 128(1):4–44. Maccheroni, F., Massimo, M., and Alfonso, M. (2025). Optimal updating under model uncertainty. Technical report, Working paper. Manso, G. (2011). Motivating innovation. The journal of finance , 66(5):1823–1860. Maselli, A. (2025). Misspecification averse preferences. Technical report, Penn Institute for Economic Research. 77 Miao, J. and Rivera, A. (2016). Robust contracts in continuous time. Econometrica ,84(4):1405–1440. Nyarko, Y. (1991). Learning in mis-specified models and the possibility of cycles. Journal of Economic Theory , 55(2):416–427. Schmeidler, D. (1989). Subjective probability and expected utility without additivity. 

Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society , pages 571–587. Spear, S. E. and Srivastava, S. (1987). On repeated moral hazard with discounting. The Review of Economic Studies , 54(4):599–617. Strzalecki, T. (2011). Axiomatic foundations of multiplier preferences. Econometrica ,79(1):47–73. Tian, X. and Wang, T. Y. (2014). Tolerance for failure and corporate innovation. The Review of Financial Studies , 27(1):211–255. Van den Steen, E. (2005). Organizational beliefs and managerial vision. Journal of Law, Economics, and organization , 21(1):256–283. Van den Steen, E. (2010). On the origin of shared beliefs (and corporate culture). The RAND Journal of Economics , 41(4):617–648. von Neumann, J. (1947). Heywood, robert b. the works of the mind: The mathematician. Vuong, Q. H. (1989). Likelihood ratio tests for model selection and non-nested hypotheses. 

Econometrica: journal of the Econometric Society , pages 307–333. Wack, P. (1985). Scenarios: uncharted waters ahead. Harvard business review , 63(5):72– 89. Wasserman, N. (2003). Founder-ceo succession and the paradox of entrepreneurial success. 

Organization science , 14(2):149–172. 78 Online Appendix: “Motivating Innovation with Misspecified Contracts” 

We explore how enlarging the outcome and action spaces affect our impossibility result. 

# Online Appendix A: Diagnostic Milestones 

This appendix complements Theorem 1 by clarifying when a richer, verifiable perfor-mance taxonomy can prevent breakthrough traps. We provide two insights: (i) adding more outcomes does not necessarily prevent breakthrough traps; (ii) adding a diagnostic 

milestone that is substantially more likely under routine execution than under innova-tion can restore implementability even when λ2(1) is large. This analysis identifies when measurement design—what can be contracted on, and how the roadmap models differ on that statistic—can complement the tools in Section 6 to help avoid breakthrough traps. 

Three outcomes. We modify Section 5.1 by letting the contractible outcome be Y =

{1, 0, d }, where 1 remains the breakthrough event, 0 is ordinary failure, and d is a verifiable milestone that is much more likely when the agent pursues incremental routine tasks (e.g., a standardized benchmark pass or a benchmark prototype). The safe action a = 1 induces a known q1 ∈ ∆( Y ) with q1(1) = p and q1(d) = ψ, and innovation a = 2 is described by Q2 = {qL, q H } ⊂ ∆( Y ) with qi(1) = θi and qi(d) = εi

for i ∈ { L, H }, where 0 < θ L < p < θ H < 1. All remaining primitives and the definition of gq(·; λ) in (12) are unchanged such as full support assumptions, and we continue to maintain the LLR updating rule in Assumption 1 for the misspecification parameter λ.We first show that adding some arbitrary outcome in the framework of Section 5.1 may not affect the existence of breakthrough traps. 

Observation 7. Suppose that conditional on {y̸ = 1 }, the relative frequencies of d and 

0 are the same across all models: there exists η ∈ (0 , 1) such that 

q1(d) = (1 − p)η, q1(0) = (1 − p)(1 − η),

and for each q ∈ Q2,

q(d) = (1 − q(1)) η, q(0) = (1 − q(1))(1 − η).

Then, for every (μ, λ ), C(μ, λ ) coincides with the binary-outcome capacity with outcomes 

{1, ¬1}. Hence, adding outcome d does not relax breakthrough traps. Proof of Observation 7. Fix ( μ, λ ), η ∈ (0 , 1), and an arbitrary continuation utility vector 

x : Y → R, where Y = {1, 0, d }. Define xF := − 1 

> λ

log  ηe −λx (d) + (1 − η)e−λx (0) . We first show that under the stated restriction, each model’s entropic certainty equivalent OA-1 depends on x only through the pair ( x(1) , x F ). For any q ∈ { q1} ∪ Q2, we are given that 

q(d) = (1 − q(1)) η and q(0) = (1 − q(1))(1 − η), hence 

X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λx (y) = q(1) e−λx (1) + q(d)e−λx (d) + q(0) e−λx (0) 

= q(1) e−λx (1) + (1 − q(1)) 



ηe −λx (d) + (1 − η)e−λx (0) 



= q(1) e−λx (1) + (1 − q(1)) e−λx F .

Therefore, recalling (12), 

gq(x; λ) = − 1

λ log 



q(1) e−λx (1) + (1 − q(1)) e−λx F



. (83) In particular, gq(x; λ) depends on x only through ( x(1) , x F ) and on q only through q(1). Next, define the two-outcome (binary) certainty-equivalent functional 

bgθ(u, v ; λ) := − 1

λ log 



θe −λu + (1 − θ)e−λv 



, θ ∈ (0 , 1) , (u, v ) ∈ R2.

Then, (83) can be rewritten as gq(x; λ) = bgq(1) (x(1) , x F ; λ). Let cM (μ, λ ; u, v ) denote the binary analogue of the wedge M (μ, λ ; x) in (14), i.e., 

cM (μ, λ ; u, v ) := X

> q∈Q2

μ(q) bgq(1) (u, v ; λ) − bgq1(1) (u, v ; λ).

By the identity above, M (μ, λ ; x) = cM (μ, λ ; x(1) , x F ). Taking suprema over x yields 

C(μ, λ ) = sup  

> x:Y→R

M (μ, λ ; x) ≤ sup 

> (u,v )∈R2

cM (μ, λ ; u, v ). (84) We will now show the reverse inequality. Fix any ( u, v ) ∈ R2 and construct x

by setting x(1) = u and x(d) = x(0) = v. Then, xF = v by definition of xF (since 

ηe −λv + (1 − η)e−λv = e−λv ), and hence M (μ, λ ; x) = cM (μ, λ ; u, v ). Therefore, sup 

> (u,v )∈R2

cM (μ, λ ; u, v ) ≤ sup  

> x:Y→R

M (μ, λ ; x) = C(μ, λ ),

which combined with (84) gives equality. Thus, the three-outcome capacity coincides with the binary capacity. The idea is that to affect the prevalence of breakthrough traps, the additional out-come has to significantly affect the likelihood ratio of models. This is shown below. 

Observation 8. Fix the post-success state (μS , λ S ) := ( μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)) . If 

X

> q∈Q2

μS (q) log 

q1(d)

q(d)



> λ S k, (85) 

then C(μS , λ S ) ≥ k and innovation is implementable after success. In particular, if μS

concentrates on qH , a sufficient condition is log( ψ/ε H ) > λ 2(1) k.

OA-2 Proof of Observation 8. Fix the post-success state ( μS , λ S ) and suppose (85) holds, i.e., 

X

> q∈Q2

μS (q) log 

q1(d)

q(d)



> λ S k. 

For T > 0, define the continuation utility vector xT : Y → R by xT (d) = 0 and 

xT (1) = xT (0) = TλS . Then, e−λS xT (d) = 1 and e−λS xT (1) = e−λS xT (0) = e−T , so for any 

q ∈ { q1} ∪ Q2,

X

> y∈Y

q(y)e−λS xT (y) = q(d)·1+(1 −q(d)) e−T , gq(xT ; λS ) = − 1

λS

log  q(d)+(1 −q(d)) e−T .

Hence, recalling M in (14), 

M (μS , λ S ; xT ) = X

> q∈Q2

μS (q) gq(xT ; λS ) − gq1 (xT ; λS )= 1

λS

"

log  q1(d) + (1 − q1(d)) e−T  − X

> q∈Q2

μS (q) log  q(d) + (1 − q(d)) e−T #

.

(86) 

Step 1: bound approximation error. Fix any a ∈ (0 , 1) and T > 0. Write a + (1 − a)e−T =

a(1 + 1−aa e−T ). Therefore, 0 ≤ log  a + (1 − a)e−T  − log a = log 



1 + 1 − aa e−T



≤ 1 − aa e−T , (87) where the last inequality uses log(1 + u) ≤ u for all u ≥ 0. 

Step 2: lower bound. Define the “limit wedge” L := 1

> λS

P 

> q∈Q2

μS (q) log 

q1(d)

> q(d)



. By assumption, L > k . Using (86) and then (87) (applied to a = q(d)), we get 

M (μS , λ S ; xT ) = 1

λS

"

log q1(d) − X

> q∈Q2

μS (q) log q(d) + 



log  q1(d) + (1 − q1(d)) e−T  − log q1(d)



− X

> q∈Q2

μS (q)



log  q(d) + (1 − q(d)) e−T  − log q(d)

#

≥ L − 1

λS

X

> q∈Q2

μS (q)1 − q(d)

q(d) e−T .

Let A := P 

> q∈Q2

μS (q) · 1−q(d) 

> q(d)

∈ (0 , ∞). Then, 

M (μS , λ S ; xT ) ≥ L − AλS

e−T . (88) 

Step 3: choose finite T . Since L − k > 0, choose any T such that e−T ≤ λS (L−k) 

> A

,i.e., T ≥ log   AλS (L−k)

. Then, (88) implies M (μS , λ S ; xT ) ≥ k. Finally, by definition of capacity in (14), C(μS , λ S ) = sup x:Y →R M (μS , λ S ; x) ≥ M (μS , λ S ; xT ) ≥ k. Therefore, innovation is implementable after success by Proposition 6. To summarize, Observation 7 formalizes that “more outcomes” is irrelevant unless OA-3 the refinement adds action-diagnostic content: if models agree on the relative composition of non-breakthrough outcomes, then the agent compresses them into a single certainty equivalent and the breakthrough trap is unchanged. Observation 8 shows that a verifiable milestone d that is markedly more likely under routine execution than under innovative models (large likelihood ratio q1(d)/q (d)) enlarges the post-success incentive capacity, thereby restoring implementability when λ2(1) is high. Thus, beyond the tools in Section 6 that act by shaping the evolution of λt(·), measurement/model design can also matter: identifying and contracting on diagnostic milestones can prevent the post-success collapse of implementable innovation incentives that drives our impossibility result (Theorem 1). 

# Online Appendix B: Shirking vs. Innovation 

This appendix extends Section 5 by introducing a third action, shirking a = 0, alongside exploitation a = 1 and exploration a = 2. The purpose is twofold: (i) to show formally that the main dynamic results—in particular, the breakthrough trap and the resulting irrelevance of scale-up incentives—continue to hold, and (ii) to clarify why shirking rein-forces these results by tightening implementability constraints. 

Primitives. Maintain all primitives from Section 5 unless explicitly modified here. The action set becomes A = {0, 1, 2}. At each date t ∈ { 1, 2}, conditional on action at = a,output yt ∈ Y = {0, 1} is drawn from: 

• Shirking a = 0: a known Bernoulli distribution q0 ∈ ∆( Y ) with q0(1) = p0 ∈ (0 , 1). 

• Exploitation a = 1: the known “safe” Bernoulli distribution q1 ∈ ∆( Y ) from the main text (so q1(1) = p ∈ (0 , 1)). 

• Innovation a = 2: the ambiguous distribution as in Section 5.1, with Q2 = {qL, q H }

and belief μt(ht) ∈ ∆( Q2) updated by Bayes’ rule as in the main text. Costs are c(0) = 0, c(1) = k1 > 0, and c(2) = k > 0, where k1 is the private cost of exploitation. Here, k1 captures the idea that even “routine” execution requires costly effort, whereas shirking avoids such costs. Let k ≥ k1 to capture that innovation is at least as costly as the routine action. 

Robust one-step evaluation at t = 2 . Fix a continuation utility vector x : Y → R,a robustness parameter λ > 0, and a posterior μ ∈ ∆( Q2). Recall the entropic certainty equivalent gq(·; λ) in (12) and the ARC aggregator G(·; μ, λ ) in (13). At t = 2 there is no OA-4 continuation beyond the current outcome, so the agent evaluates each action as: 

V2(μ, λ ; a, x ) = 



gq0 (x; λ) if a = 0 ,gq1 (x; λ) − k1 if a = 1 ,

G(x; μ, λ ) − k if a = 2 .

(89) 

Pre-cost advantages. Define, for any ( μ, λ ) and any x : Y → R,

M 0(μ, λ ; x) := G(x; μ, λ ) − gq0 (x; λ), M 1(μ, λ ; x) := G(x; μ, λ ) − gq1 (x; λ). (90) Note that M 1 coincides with M in (14). Here, M 0 and M 1 measure the robust (pre-cost) value of innovation relative to, respectively, shirking and exploitation, given the wage/utility schedule x and local robustness λ.

Terminal implementability of continued innovation. At a given ( μ, λ ) and contract-induced x, innovation a = 2 is optimal at t = 2 if and only if it weakly dominates both 

non-innovative actions a ∈ { 0, 1}. Using (89), this is equivalent to the conjunction 

M 0(μ, λ ; x) ≥ k and M 1(μ, λ ; x) ≥ k − k1. (91) It is convenient to combine these into a single “slack” functional: 

M (μ, λ ; x) := min 

n

M 0(μ, λ ; x) − k, M 1(μ, λ ; x) − (k − k1)

o

. (92) Thus, M (μ, λ ; x) ≥ 0 if and only if (91) holds. 

Observation 9 (Terminal implementability with shirking) . Fix any dynamic contract 

(x1, x 2). At t = 2 , conditional on y1, let the state be (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) as in Section 5. Then, a2 = 2 is (weakly) optimal after history y1 if and only if 

M  μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x2(y1, ·) ≥ 0. (93) 

Define the shirking-adjusted incentive capacity at (μ, λ ) by 

C(μ, λ ) := sup  

> x:Y→R

M (μ, λ ; x). (94) 

Then, a2 = 2 is implementable after history y1 if and only if C(μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) ≥ 0.Proof. Fix ( μ, λ ) and x. By (89), V2(μ, λ ; 2 , x ) ≥ V2(μ, λ ; 0 , x ) is equivalent to G(x; μ, λ )−

k ≥ gq0 (x; λ), i.e., M 0(μ, λ ; x) ≥ k. Similarly, V2(μ, λ ; 2 , x ) ≥ V2(μ, λ ; 1 , x ) is equivalent to 

G(x; μ, λ )−k ≥ gq1 (x; λ)−k1, i.e., M 1(μ, λ ; x) ≥ k−k1. Thus, a2 = 2 is optimal if and only if (91) holds, which is equivalent to M (μ, λ ; x) ≥ 0 by definition (92). Applying this at the realized state ( μ2(y1), λ 2(y1)) and x = x2(y1, ·) yields (93). Existence of a contract that induces a2 = 2 after y1 is equivalent to existence of some x with M (μ2(y1), λ 2(y1); x) ≥ 0, which holds if and only if the supremum (94) is nonnegative. 

Shirking tightens constraints. Relative to the two-action terminal condition in Propo-sition 6, which requires only M 1(μ, λ ; x) ≥ k (because c(1) = 0 there and there is no OA-5 a = 0), the three-action condition (91) requires satisfying two inequalities simultane-ously. Formally, the feasible set of continuation vectors x that induce a = 2 at ( μ, λ )is 

X {0,1,2} 

> 2

(μ, λ ) = 

n

x : M 0(μ, λ ; x) ≥ k and M 1(μ, λ ; x) ≥ k − k1

o

,

whereas without shirking it is 

X {1,2} 

> 2

(μ, λ ) = 

n

x : M 1(μ, λ ; x) ≥ k − k1

o

.

Hence, X {0,1,2} 

> 2

(μ, λ ) ⊆ X {1,2} 

> 2

(μ, λ ) for all ( μ, λ ): adding shirking can never create imple-mentability of innovation at a node; it can only remove it. Equivalently, using (94) and the fact that min {A, B } ≤ A,

C(μ, λ ) ≤ sup 

> x

 M 1(μ, λ ; x) − (k − k1) = C(μ, λ ) − (k − k1), (95) where C(μ, λ ) = sup x M 1(μ, λ ; x) is the original capacity from (14). This inequality is the precise sense in which shirking tightens the continued innovation constraint. 

Breakthrough trap with shirking. The breakthrough trap mechanism in the main text hinges on the success-node becoming uncontractible for continued innovation, which forces the success-contingent continuation action a2 = 2 to be absent from every subgame-perfect equilibrium and makes the scale-up factor A irrelevant. With shirking, the same logic goes through, with the only change being that non-contractibility must be under-stood relative to the expanded deviation set {0, 1}.

Definition 6 (Breakthrough trap with shirking) . Parameters are said to exhibit a break-through trap with shirking if C(μ2(·| y1 = 1) , λ 2(1)) < 0, where C is defined in (94) .

Observation 10. Suppose parameters satisfy Definition 6. Then, for any dynamic con-tract (x1, x 2) and any induced subgame-perfect equilibrium, 

P(a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2) = 0 .

Consequently, the principal’s expected profit is independent of the scale-up factor A.Proof of Observation 10. Fix any contract ( x1, x 2) and any induced subgame-perfect equi-librium. Consider the history ( a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1); the state entering t = 2 is ( μ2(1) , λ 2(1)) by the same state evolution as in Section 5. Since C(μ2(1) , λ 2(1)) < 0, by definition of C

in (94) we have M (μ2(1) , λ 2(1); x) < 0 for every x : Y → R. In particular, 

M  μ2(1) , λ 2(1); x2(1 , ·) < 0.

By Observation 9, this implies that after y1 = 1 the agent does not choose a2 = 2 (he strictly prefers at least one of a2 ∈ { 0, 1}). Therefore, P(a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2) = 0 in any subgame-perfect equilibrium. Finally, by construction of the scale-up multiplier in Section 5.2, we recall R2 =1+( A−1) 1{a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2 }. Since the indicator event has probability zero, R2 = 1 OA-6 almost surely under any equilibrium; hence the principal’s expected profit depends on A

only through a term that is almost surely zero, and is therefore independent of A.

Relation to breakthrough trap. Observation 10 is the analogue of Theorem 1, with the sole change that “contractibility” of continued innovation at a node must now hold against both non-innovative deviations. In particular, the success-node non-contractibility condition is strictly stronger: it requires that no continuation utility sched-ule x can simultaneously make innovation attractive relative to (i) shirking, which saves 

k1 in private costs, and (ii) exploitation. Algebraically, the success-node condition is 

C(μ2(1) , λ 2(1)) < 0, which by (95) is implied by C(μ2(1) , λ 2(1)) < k − k1 and is never weaker than the corresponding two-action requirement holding fixed ( k, k 1) and the un-derlying distributions. Thus, allowing the agent to “do nothing” at no cost adds a new incentive constraint; this cannot help the principal sustain continued innovation after a breakthrough and can only (weakly) make such continuation harder. 

Other dynamic results. All results in sections related to Section 5.2 that rely only on the non-contractibility (or contractibility) of a2 = 2 at a given node extend verbatim after replacing the scalar condition M (μ, λ ; x) ≥ k (Proposition 6) by the pair of inequalities (91) (Observation 9), or equivalently by M (μ, λ ; x) ≥ 0. For example, the scale-up irrelevance conclusion remains unchanged, because it only uses that the scale-up state requires the event {a1 = 2 , y 1 = 1 , a 2 = 2 } to occur with positive probability. 

# Online Appendix C: Convergence of States 

Condition (43) requires that the state ( μt(ht), λ t(ht)) stabilizes uniformly over all N -period continuation contingencies ˜h ∈ H t,N (ht), for every fixed N . This is stronger than the on-path convergence statements in Observation 3 and Observation 6. We show that in the innovation environment, this uniformity is a natural consequence of (i) posterior concentration and (ii) the fact that both Bayesian odds and the normalized log-likelihood ratio move only by a bounded amount over any fixed finite horizon. 

Step 1: Bayesian posteriors are locally stable. As maintained throughout, the safe action is known and shared across all structured models, so learning about the roadmap concerns only the innovation component Q2 ⊂ ∆( Y ), and periods with aτ = 1 do not affect relative likelihoods across q ∈ Q2. Maintain full support on Y within Q2, so 

q(y) > 0 for all q ∈ Q2 and y ∈ Y . Since Q2 and Y are finite, define the finite constant 

K := max 

> q,q ′∈Q2

max 

> y∈Y

q(y)

q′(y) ∈ [1 , +∞). (96) OA-7 Lemma 13. Fix any q⋆ ∈ Q2 and any private history ht ∈ Ht such that μt(q⋆|ht) > 0.Then for every integer N ≥ 0 and every continuation contingency ˜h ∈ H t,N (ht),

1 − μ|˜h|(q⋆|˜h) ≤ KN 1 − μt(q⋆|ht)

μt(q⋆|ht) . (97) 

Consequently, μ|˜h|(·| ˜h) − δq⋆ 1 = 2  1 − μ|˜h|(q⋆|˜h) ≤ 2KN 1−μt(q⋆|ht) 

> μt(q⋆|ht)

.

Step 2: LLR updates are locally stable. Recall the LLR statistic (38). Define, 

Mt(ht) := max 

> q∈Qt−1

Y 

> τ=1

qaτ (yτ ), Ut(ht) := max  

> p∈∆( Y)A
> t−1

Y 

> τ=1

paτ (yτ ), LLR( ht, Q ) = log Ut(ht)

Mt(ht).

Let 

q := min 

n

min  

> y∈Y

q1(y), min 

> q∈Q2

min  

> y∈Y

q(y)

o

∈ (0 , 1) , (98) which is strictly positive by finiteness and full support. 

Lemma 14. Fix N ≥ 0. There exists a constant B < ∞ (depending only on N and q)such that for every t ≥ 2, every ht ∈ Ht and every ˜h ∈ H t,N (ht),

LLR( ˜h, Q )

|˜h| − LLR( ht, Q )

t ≤ B 1 + log( t + N )

t . (99) 

In particular, for each fixed N , the right-hand side converges to 0 as t → ∞ uniformly over ˜h ∈ H t,N (ht).

## Online Appendix C.1: Proofs 

Proof of Lemma 13. Write |˜h| = t + j with 0 ≤ j ≤ N . For any q ∈ Q2 \ { q⋆}, Bayes rule (36) implies the posterior-odds identity μt+j (q|˜h)  

> μt+j(q⋆|˜h)

= μt(q|ht)

> μt(q⋆|ht)

Qt+j−1      

> τ=tqaτ (yτ)
> q⋆aτ (yτ)

. Along any period τ in the extension with aτ = 1, the likelihood ratio equals 1 because the safe action distribution is common across all structured models. Along any period with aτ = 2, the likelihood ratio is q(yτ )/q ⋆(yτ ) ≤ K by (96). Since there are at most j ≤ N periods in the extension, it follows that μt+j (q|˜h)  

> μt+j(q⋆|˜h)

≤ KN μ t(q|ht) 

> μt(q⋆|ht)

, ∀q̸ = q⋆. Summing over q̸ = q⋆ yields 1 − μt+j (q⋆|˜h)

μt+j (q⋆|˜h) = X 

> q̸=q⋆

μt+j (q|˜h)

μt+j (q⋆|˜h) ≤ KN X 

> q̸=q⋆

μt(q|ht)

μt(q⋆|ht) = KN 1 − μt(q⋆|ht)

μt(q⋆|ht) .

Since μt+j (q⋆|˜h) ≤ 1, multiplying both sides by μt+j (q⋆|˜h) gives (97). The ℓ1 bound follows from ∥μ − δq⋆ ∥1 = 2(1 − μ(q⋆)) on the finite set Q2.

Proof of Lemma 14. Write |˜h| = t + j with 0 ≤ j ≤ N .

(i) Bounding the structured likelihood term. Let qt ∈ arg max q∈Q

Qt−1  

> τ=1

qaτ (yτ ), so 

Mt(ht) = Qt−1  

> τ=1

qt,a τ (yτ ). For any extension by j periods, 

Mt+j (˜h) = max 

> q∈Qt+j−1

Y 

> τ=1

qaτ (yτ ) ≥

> t+j−1

Y 

> τ=1

qt,a τ (yτ ) = Mt(ht)

> t+j−1

Y 

> τ=t

qt,a τ (yτ ) ≥ Mt(ht)qj ,

OA-8 where the last inequality uses (98). Since also Mt+j (˜h) ≤ Mt(ht), we obtain 0 ≤ log Mt(ht)

Mt+j (˜h) ≤ j log 1

q ≤ N log 1

q . (100) 

(ii) Bounding the unstructured likelihood term. Let pt ∈ arg max p∈∆( Y )A

Qt−1  

> τ=1

paτ (yτ ), so Ut(ht) = Qt−1  

> τ=1

pt,a τ (yτ ). Define ˜ p ∈ ∆( Y )A by setting, for each a ∈ A,˜pa := 



1 − na

t + j



pt,a + 1

t + j

> t+j−1

X  

> τ=t:aτ=a

δyτ ,

where na := # {τ ∈ { t, . . . , t + j − 1} : aτ = a} ∈ { 0, 1, . . . , j }. Then, ˜ pa ∈ ∆( Y ), for each new observation τ ∈ { t, . . . , t + j − 1}, we have ˜ paτ (yτ ) ≥ 1/(t + j), and for each past observation τ ≤ t − 1, we have ˜ paτ (yτ ) ≥ (1 − naτ  

> t+j

)pt,a τ (yτ ) ≥ tt+j pt,a τ (yτ ) because 1 − naτ  

> t+j

= t+j−naτ  

> t+j

≥ tt+j (as naτ ≤ j). Hence, 

Ut+j (˜h) = max 

> pt+j−1

Y 

> τ=1

paτ (yτ ) ≥

> t+j−1

Y 

> τ=1

˜paτ (yτ ) ≥

 tt + j

t−1

Ut(ht)

 1

t + j

j

.

Using   tt+j

t−1 =  1 + jt

−(t−1) ≥ e−j , we get 0 ≤ log Ut(ht)

Ut+j (˜h) ≤ j 1 + log( t + j) ≤ N  1 + log( t + N ). (101) 

(iii) Normalized bound. Since LLR = log U − log M , combining (100)–(101) gives 

LLR( ˜h, Q ) − LLR( ht, Q ) ≤ N log 1

q + N  1 + log( t + N ) ≤ CN

 1 + log( t + N )

for a constant CN < ∞ depending only on N and q.Finally, 

LLR( ˜h, Q )

t + j − LLR( ht, Q )

t ≤ LLR( ˜h, Q ) − LLR( ht, Q )

t + LLR( ˜h, Q ) 1

t + j − 1

t .

For the second term, note Ut+j (˜h) ≤ 1 and Mt+j (˜h) ≥ qt+j−1, so LLR( ˜h, Q ) = log Ut+j (˜h)

Mt+j (˜h) ≤ log 1

qt+j−1 ≤ (t + N ) log 1

q .

Also, 1 

> t+j

− 1 

> t

= jt(t+j) ≤ Nt2 , so the second term is bounded by log(1 /q )N (t+N ) 

> t2

≤ C′ 

> N

/t 

for a constant C′ 

> N

< ∞ (fixed N ). Combining bounds and absorbing constants yields (99). 

Proof of Corollary 7. Fix N ≥ 0. 

(i) Belief component. By Observation 3(b) (applied to a = 2) and the singleton condition Q2 = {ˆq}, we have μt(·| ht) → δˆq almost surely, hence μt(ˆ q|ht) → 1. Lemma 13 with q⋆ = ˆ q yields sup  

> ˜h∈H t,N (ht)

μ|˜h|(·| ˜h) − δˆq 1 ≤ 2KN 1 − μt(ˆ q|ht)

μt(ˆ q|ht) −→ 0 a.s. as t → ∞ ,

OA-9 which is exactly the first convergence in (43). 

(ii) Robustness component. By Observation 4 (applied to a = 2), LLR( ht, Q )/t → D∗

> 2

almost surely. Under statistical sophistication, λt(ht) = LLR( ht, Q )/(γt ), hence λt(ht) →

λ∞ := D∗ 

> 2

/γ almost surely. Moreover, Lemma 14 implies sup  

> ˜h∈H t,N (ht)

λ|˜h|(˜h) − λt(ht) = 1

γ sup  

> ˜h∈H t,N (ht)

LLR( ˜h, Q )

|˜h| − LLR( ht, Q )

t −→ 0 a.s. To pass from Euclidean convergence to d–convergence uniformly over ˜h, fix M := 

λ∞+1 < ∞. Almost surely, for all large t we have λt(ht) ≤ λ∞+12 and sup ˜h∈H t,N (ht) |λ|˜h|(˜h)−

λt(ht)| ≤ 12 , so λ|˜h|(˜h) ≤ M for all ˜h ∈ H t,N (ht). By property (ii) of the metric d in On-line Appendix B.2, the d–topology on [0 , M ] coincides with the Euclidean topology. Since [0 , M ] is compact, the identity map is uniformly continuous from the Euclidean metric to the metric d. Therefore, sup ˜h |λ|˜h|(˜h) − λ∞| → 0 implies sup ˜h∈H t,N (ht) d λ|˜h|(˜h), λ ∞

 → 0a.s. which is the second convergence in (43). OA-10