Title: 2602.21843v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2602.21843v1

Published Time: Thu, 26 Feb 2026 01:52:07 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
– 1 –

# The economic alignment problem of artificial intelligence 

Daniel W. O’Neill 1,2,* , Stefano Vrizzi 1, Noemi Luna Carmeno 1, Felix Creutzig 3,4 , Jefim Vogel 1,5  

> 1

UB School of Economics, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain  

> 2

Sustainability Research Institute, School of Earth and Environment, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK  

> 3

Bennett Chair for Innovation and Policy Acceleration, University of Sussex Business School, Falmer, UK  

> 4

Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Potsdam and Berlin, Germany  

> 5

Leeds University Business School, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK 

*e -mail:  oneill@ub.edu 

# Abstract 

Artificial intelligence (AI) is advancing exponentiall y and is likely to have profound imp acts on 

human wellbeing, social equity , and environmental sustainability . Here we argue that t he 

“alignment problem ” in AI research is also an economic alignment problem , as developing 

advanced AI inside a growth -based system is likely to increase social, environmental, and 

existential risks. We show that p ost -growth research offers concepts and policies that c ould 

substantially reduce AI risks , such as by replacing optimisation with satisficing, using the 

Doughnut of social and planetary boundaries to guide development , and curbing systemic 

rebound with resource caps. We propose governance and business reforms that treat AI as a 

commons and prioritise tool -like autonomy -enhancing systems over agentic AI. Finally, we 

argue that the development of artificial general intelligence (AGI) may require a new economics, 

for which post -growth scholarship provides a strong foundation. 

# Introduction 

Artificial intelligence (AI) is reshaping human, social, and economic systems, with impacts that 

could range from highly beneficial 1 to potentially catastrophic 2. While recent research has 

emphasise d the need to align AI with human and planetary wellbeing 3, less attention has been 

paid to the economic context in which AI is being developed. Crucially, alignment is not only a 

technical challenge: it is conditioned by the values, incentives, and power structures of the 

prevailing growth -oriented economic system. We argue that this system undermines the social 

and environmental goals AI that should serve, creating what we call the economic alignment 

problem .

Three types of risks and associated research highlight the urgency to act upon and regulate AI. 

The first is safety. AI systems now match or exceed the average human being on a range of tasks 

such as image classification, reading comprehension, PhD -level science questions, visual 

reasoning, and competition -level mathematics 4. Many warn that “artificial general intelligence” 

(AGI) could be just around the corner 5,6 , or that it has already arrived (see Box 1)7. While about 

two thirds of computer scientists think good outcomes from advanced AI are more likely than 

bad, 38% estimate at least a 10% chance of catastrophic outcomes such as human extinction 8.

Second, social -science scholarship emphasises structural risks, including concentration of 

power, automated persuasion, epistemic fragmentation, and the erosion of democratic 

governance 9, which in turn reduces institutional capacity to manage technological shocks 10 . A

recent systematic literature review highlights the impact that AI could have on various aspects 

of human wellbeing , with roughly half of studies expressing a positive view on the impact of AI 

and half expressing a negative view 11 . The areas where sentiment is most positive relate to 

income, cognitive capabilities, and health. The areas where sentiment is most negative relate to 

inequality, social relationships, and employment 11 .– 2 –

Environmental analyses add a third important domain. Researchers have started to explore the 

impact that AI could have on the environment , including the UN Sustainable Development 

Goals 12 , climate change mitigation 13 , and sustainability science 14 . A recent review found that 

over 80% of studies portray the impacts of AI on the environment as positive 11 . However, m ost 

studies focus on ways that AI can be applied to help solve specific environmental problems ,

and neglect systemic effects that AI itself could cause 11 . These effects could have far greater 

implications for sustainability 15,16 . Scaling computational energy demand, supply -chain 

material intensity, and AI -enabled acceleration of production, extraction, and consumption 

amplif y ecological overshoot despite localised efficiency gains 13,17,18 .

Recent work increasingly treats these three areas as coupled risks. For instance , AI 

misinformation weakens institutions which in turn degrades safety oversight 10 . Th e risks from AI 

appear at a time when humanity is already transgressing 7 of the 9 planetary boundaries that 

define a safe space for development on this planet 19 , while billions of people are unable to meet 

their essential needs 20 .

To address th e coupled socio -ecological crisis, p ost -growth researchers have argue d that 

countries need to move beyond the pursuit of GDP growth, which is a poor measure of societal 

progress, and instead focus on improving human wellbeing within ecological limits (see Box 2)21 .

Research on demand -side approaches shows that a focus on wellbeing can improve human life 

while reducing planetary pressures 22,23 . Yet these insights have only recently begun to be 

connected to the rapidly evolving field of AI. 

This raises the question of how post ‑growth research might inform the economic alignment 

problem . Although there is a small but important literature that considers the role of technology 

in a post -growth society 24 –26 , this research has yet to engage with the topic of AI. Except for an 

early study by Pueyo 27 , which warns of the dangers of superintelligent AI emerging in a 

neoliberal regime, and a recent study by Meyers et al. 28 , which evaluates a specific type of 

machine learning against a conviviality framework, post -growth and AI research have yet to 

intersect .

In this article , we argue that if advanced AI systems are developed in a n economy where the 

goal i s endless economic growth, then they may pose a much greater danger to humanity than if 

they are developed in a n economy where the goal is enough for all within planetary boundaries .

We show that post -growth research provides many ideas that would help to address the safety, 

social, and planetary risks of advanced AI. We present a post -growth policy roadmap for AI , and 

suggest that the development of AGI may necessi tate new economic theories a nd models , for 

which post -growth provides a strong foundation .– 3 –

Box 1: What is artificial intelligence? 

Artificial intelligence today refers to the development of computer systems capable of performing 

tasks that typically require human intelligence, such as learning, problem -solving, and decision -

making. It is helpful to distinguish between three levels of capability: artificial narrow intelligence (ANI), 

artificial general intelligence (AGI), and artificial superintelligence (ASI). 

ANI refers to a system that can perform a single narrow function at human level or better. It lacks the 

human ability to adapt and generalise to novel goals and contexts. M ost experts argue that ANI is the 

type of AI we still have at present (e.g. Siri, Alexa, ChatGPT) , although some suggest current models 

already exceed this level 7.

AGI refers to a system that can learn and perform almost any intellectual task that a human can do. 

Researchers have developed a quantifiable framework to assess artificial intelligence across ten 

cognitive domains 29 . Current AI models like ChatGPT exhibit a “jagged” profile on this framework, 

excelling in some domains (reading/writing, mathematics, and general knowledge), but doing poorly in 

others (long -term memory storage and speed). However, model performance is i mproving, with GPT -4

(a 2023 model) scoring 27% on the framework overall, and GPT -5 (a 2025 model) scoring 57% 29 .

ASI refers to a system with cognitive abilities that surpass human beings in virtually all domains, and 

that can potentially set its own goals 30 . ASI could emerge if AGI undergoes recursive self -improvement, 

a pathway that has been likened to a “singularity” in which the pace of technological change becomes 

so rapid that “human life will be irreversibly transformed” 31 . Some authors therefore treat ASI as an 

existential risk, arguing that developing superintelligent machines that can self -improve and pursue 

their own goals would likely lead to human extinction 2.

Box 2: What is post -growth? 

Post -growth is an umbrella term for sustainability visions that are critical of the pursuit of GDP growth 

as a goal in wealthy nations 32 . It draws on ideas from ecological economics, and includes visions such 

as degrowth 33 , steady -state economics 34 , Doughnut economics 35 , and the wellbeing economy 36 .

There are three main reasons that post -growth scholars criticise the pursuit of GDP: (1) economic 

activity is tightly coupled to energy and material use 37 ; (2) beyond the point where people’s needs are 

met, additional money does not significantly improve human wellbeing 38 ; and (3) growth rates have 

been steadily falling in wealthy nations 32 . Post -growth envisions redesigning the economy so that its 

development is guided by the three goals of human wellbeing, social equity, and environmental 

sustainability, rather than GDP growth 39 .

Technological innovation has been important to post -growth visions as far back as The Limits to 

Growth report 40 . Both the wellbeing economy and the Doughnut see technology as a tool that can be 

used to help improve human wellbeing and environmental sustainability 35,36 , while degrowth has a 

more conflicted view on technology 24 .

Overall, post -growth calls for selective, context -sensitive adoption of technologies that are convivial, 

appropriate, and democratically governed 24 . Post -growth challenges technological determinism (the 

idea that technological change is inevitable and bound to increase indefinitely) and productivism (the 

idea that technological development is always good and desirable) 25 . Importantly, in post -growth 

visions, better technology is not enough on its own. Social change is also needed to achieve 

sustainability 26 .– 4 –

# The Economic Alignment Problem 

The “alignment problem” in AI research is the challenge of ensuring that AI systems behave in a 

way that is consistent with human intentions and values, and that they do not produce 

unintended or harmful outcomes 41 . It is a major AI safety problem, which does not currently 

have a solution. 

We argue that t he alignment problem is also an economic alignment problem . Aligning AI with 

human values means first aligning our economic system with these values. If we build AI in an 

economic system that is not aligned with human wellbeing and environmental sustainability, we 

can hardly expect AI to be aligned with these goals . Developing AGI within an economy where 

the goal is growth could go badly wrong, as w e would be training the AI to pursue exponential 

growth as a goal. The opportunity cost of this growth could be humanity itself .

Although AI holds tremendous p otential to improve human wellbeing and advance scientific 

understanding, if developed in the current economic system, it could instead lead to major 

safety, social, and planetary risks. 

## The exponential growth of AI model capabilities 

The physicist Albert Bartlett famously argued that “The greatest shortcoming of the human race 

is our inability to understand the exponential function” 42 . Exponential growth appears slow 

initially , but becomes explosive — and ultimately unsustainable — because each doubling 

brings as much growth as the entire previous history combined. Human beings tend to predict 

that change will follow a linear trajectory, not an exponential trajectory. AI may be another 

example of humanity not understanding the exponential function. Society and policymakers risk 

underestimating how rapid and disruptive change will be. 

AI is experiencing unprecedented exponential growth across multiple dimensions, far exceeding 

the pace of traditional technological advancement. Multiple measures of AI technical 

performance, research and development, and investment are increasing faster than Moore’s 

law , the observation that the number of transistors on a microchip doubles about every two 

years (Figure 1a ). Over the period from 2010 to 2024, the training compute of frontier AI models 

has grown by a factor of 4 –5 times per year 43 . This means it is doubling every 5 –6 months. Th e

acceleration in computational resources dedicated to AI training has been a key driver behind 

recent breakthroughs in model capabilities. The minimal size of model that can solve a difficult 

technical challenge is halving every 3 months, while the task difficulty that models can 

complete is doubling every 7 months (Figure 1a) .– 5 –                 

> Figure 1: The exponential growth of AI model capabilities. a,Doubling times for selected AI technical
> performance, research and development, and investment metrics that exhibit exponential growth, shown in
> comparison to Moore’s law. Doubling times are estimated by fitting exponential curves to historical data for each
> indicator; error bars denote 95% confidence intervals. MMLU =Massive Multitask Language Understanding. Source:
> Authors ,based on multiple data sources (see Supplementary Information). b,Projection of AI capabilities to 2030
> based on historical data for 2019 –2025. Values represent the task difficulty that AI models can complete with an 80%
> success probability. Results are displayed on a logarithmic scale and normalised to GPT -4. The fitted curve
> corresponds to a doubling time of approximately 7months. Selected OpenAI models are highlighted in red. Source:
> Based on historical data from Kwa et al. 44 .

The trend of AI capabilities doubling every 7 months represents an annual growth rate of over 

200%, meaning AI systems are becom ing over three times more capable each year (Figure 1b) .

At this rate, within 6 years, AI systems will be over 1000 times as capable as they are today 

(roughly an order of magnitude improvement every two years). An extrapolation of this 

exponential trend foresees AI to be roughly 5000 times more capable than GPT -4 by 2030 , and 

200 times more capable than GPT -5 (Fig ure 1b). However, whether th is exponential trend 

applies to real -world tasks remains to be seen 44 .

In a large survey of computer scientists, conducted in 2023, respondents predict ed a 10% 

chance of unaided machines outperforming humans in all cognitive and physical tasks by 2027, 

rising to a 50% chance by 2047 8. In a smaller survey of AI researchers conducted in 2024, 63% 

of respondents thought AGI would be achieved within 20 years 5. Howeve r, e stimates of when we 

will achieve AGI keep getting closer. The median prediction on the forecasting platform 

Metaculus for when the first “general AI system” will be launched was 2062 in 2020. As of 

February 2026 , the prediction wa s 2033 45 .

## Unconstrained technological development 

AI has four features that are likely to make it transformative : (1) AI is a “general -purpose 

technology” 46 , like the steam engine, electricity, or printing press, which can be embedded in 

virtually every sector of the economy. (2) Unlike past technological revolutions , which primarily 

replaced physical labour, AI directly substitutes for cognitive functions like writing, reasoning, 

creativity, and problem -solving 47 . (3) AI can make decisions , with “agentic” AI systems already 

able to act autonomously without human intervention 48 . (4) AI has the potential for recursive 

self -improvement — to learn, adapt, and improve on its own — creating the possibility of an 

“intelligence explosion” 6,31 . No previous technology ha s ha d the capacity to autonomously 

accelerate its own development in this way. 

At present, AI development is being influenced by the ideology of accelerationism. 

Accelerationism argues that the only way out of the problems created by capitalism, 

technology, and modernity is through them — by intensifying or “accelerating” their dynamics 

rather than resisting or reversing them 49 . In Silicon Valley, this idea has recently gained – 6 –

popularity in the form of “effective accelerationism” , which promotes fast, unconstrained 

technological development — especially in AI — as the way to solve global problems 50 . Some of 

its main arguments include that everything good comes from growth, free markets are the most 

effective way to organise a technological society, human needs and wants are infinite, and 

intelligence and energy use should be placed in a positive feedback loop to drive both to 

infinity 51 .

The thing that is arguably most concerning about effective accelerationism is not the blind faith 

in technology , but the blind faith in markets to guide technological development. Proponents of 

effective accelerationism are essentially arguing that 21 st century technology should be 

managed by an 18 th century socioeconomic system (i.e. free -market capitalism). The 

accelerationist approach completely neglects social innovation. We argue that technological 

innovation is not enough on its own. We also need social innovation. 

## The impact on economic growth and the environment 

Given the wide range in possible AI futures , which range from benefic ent superintelligence 6 to 

human extinction 2, the impact that AI could have on the economy, and GDP, is extremely 

uncertain (Figure 2). Low estimates predict that AI will likely have only marginal effects on global 

GDP and employment, but will increase inequality between countries 52 , or that AI will increase 

GDP by a few percent over the course of a decade 53,54 . Others speculate on “explosive” or super -

exponential growth if AI accelerates idea generation and replaces human labour 6,55 .

Figure 2: The wide r ange of AI future s in the literature and their implications for global GDP per capita . The 

dashed black line shows the long -term trend in global GDP per capita , determine d based on historical data for 1950 –

2024 (grey line) . The coloured lines show five alternative scenarios for 2025 –2050 , which we derived from the 

quantitative and qualitative descriptions of five studies , labelled as : Intelligence explosion 6, Baseline AGI 55 ,

Widespread adoption 54 , Modest growth 53 , and Human extinction 56 . Scenario trajectories were constructed by 

applying the average annual GDP per capita growth rate implied by each study , relative to the historical trendline. All 

values are expressed in constant 2011 US dollars. Source: Authors (see Supplementary Information). 

The results are so different largely because AI researchers anticipate the creation of AGI, while 

economists (with a few notable exceptions ) generally do not. The high estimates assume AGI 

and recursive self -improvement lead to explosive productivity growth, while the low estimates 

assume incremental gains that are constrained by factors such as adoption frictions and 

demand saturation. Moreover, t he low estimates only consider the capabilities of recent models 

(e.g. GPT -4), rather than future ones. 

If AI leads to explosive economic growth , as some predict , the net result could be catastrophic 

for the environment , given the difficulty of decoupling economic activity from its environmental 

impacts 37 . Although AI could allow us to develop new technologies that improve resource 

efficiency, the rebound effect demonstrates that if we find some way to make a factory 10 times 0          

> 10,000
> 20,000
> 30,000
> 40,000
> 50,000
> 60,000
> 70,000
> 80,000
> 90,000
> 100,000
> 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050
> Global GDP per capita ($)
> Intelligence explosion (Aschenbrenner)
> Baseline AGI (Korinek and Suh)
> Widespread adoption (Goldman Sachs)
> Modest growth (Acemoglu)
> Human extinction (Yudkowsky)
> Historical data
> Trendline

– 7 –

more efficient, we don ’t just bank th e savings. We produce and consume substantially more 57 .

Any improvements in resource efficiency would likely be dwarfed by the sheer scale of 

economic activity. 

## Inequality and employment 

The impact s that AI could have on social outcomes are more difficult to evaluate 11 . On the one 

hand, AI could lead to breakthroughs in medical science, dramatically improving human health 

and wellbeing. On the other hand, AI could exacerbate social problems , by displacing labour 

and intensifying inequality. 

A key question is whether AI will substitute or augment human labour. Many economists argue 

that the impact AI will have on jobs will be similar to previous technological transitions , like the 

Industrial Revolution . While some jobs will be displaced, new ones will be created 58 . By 

contrast, many AI researchers argue that artificial general intelligence capable of performing all 

(or most) cognitive tasks could substitute human labour, lead ing to mass unemployment 59,60 . If 

this is the case, then r edistributive policies of the kind proposed by post -growth scholars —

such as a wealth tax and a universal basic income 32,61,62 — would be needed to prevent rising 

inequality and sustain aggregate demand for the goods produced by AI. 

The real danger may not be AI, but the economic system in which it is developed, namely 

capitalism. According to Nobel laureate Geoffrey Hinton , who is often called one of the 

godfathers of AI, “What’s actually going to happen is rich people are going to use AI to replace 

workers. It’s going to create massive unemployment and a huge rise in profits. It will make a few 

people much richer and most people poorer. That’s not AI’s fault, that is the capitalist system” 59 .

Developing artificial general intelligence within a neoliberal, capitalist economy could be a 

recipe for disaster 27 . The incentives driving AI development — competition, profit, speed — are 

misaligned with safety , ethics, and sustainability. 

Moreover, within the current global economic system, AI may exacerbate power asymmetries 

between the Global North and Global South . AI already contributes to ecologically unequal 

exchange through the extraction of materials for hardware , the use of water and electricity for 

data centres , and the production of e -waste 63 . Its supply chains rely heavily on precarious data 

work and gig work that is concentrated in the Global South , while value is captured by a few 

companies in the Global North 64 . Moreover , AI systems trained on Western data can marginalise 

non ‑Western cultures and languages, embedding Global North values into Global South 

contexts 65 . The development of AGI could further centralis e geopolitical power and knowledge 

provision — creating a form of “algorithmic colonialism ”65 — unless ownership models and 

economic incentives change. 

## Meaning, i dentity , and purpose 

In his 1930 essay “Economic possibilities for our grandchildren” , John Maynard Keynes famously 

wondered what human beings would do when the economic problem of scarcity was solved ,

warning that mankind would be “deprived of its traditional purpose” 66 .

Previous studies have found that jobs that are more automatable also tend to have lower job 

satisfaction, in part because they involve less creativity and more repetitive tasks 67,68 . However, 

these findings rely on estimates of occupational automatability that are based on data from 

around 2010 69 , predating generative AI. 

To update this picture, we conducted a new analysis using the latest estimates of occupational 

exposure to automation. We find that while th e negative relationship holds for 2010 data 

(Figure 3a), it weakens — or even reverses — with the most recent data (Figure 3b) . AI now 

threaten s to automate tasks in occupations with high job satisfaction and meaning, including 

professions such as teachers, therapists, and senior executives. – 8 –

Figure 3: Job satisfaction and meaning in relation to occupational exposure to automation. a, Data from 201 0

suggest that the jobs that are mo st automatable are those with lower job satisfaction and perceived meaning . b,

More recent from 2023 suggest that this relationship no longer holds: l arge language models and generative AI now 

threaten to automate many jobs that bring meaning and satisfaction to people’s lives. Each point represents an 

occupation; the same set of 417 jobs is shown in both panels. Source: Automation data for 2010 are from Frey and 

Osborne 69 , while automation data for 2023 are from Eloundou et al. 46 . Job satisfaction and meaning is measured as 

the average of two survey -based indicators obtained from Payscale. See Supplementary Information for further 

details. 

If machines are ultimately able to outperform humans at all tasks, then what is left for 

humanity? The non -economic effects of job loss include less social involvement in the 

community, poorer health, lower self -esteem, and increased chance of divorce and suicide 47 .

Even if people continue to work, they may feel a sense of social uselessness .

If A GI creates “radical abundance” 70 and makes goods and services extremely cheap, then it 

could lead to hyper -materialism, with consumption being the substitute for meaning and 

purpose . The increase in resource use could lead to ecological collapse. 

These concerns highlight that human wellbeing, social equity, and environmental sustainability 

may become even more important in the age of AI. This makes it critical to explore economic 

frameworks — such as post -growth — that prioritise wellbeing within planetary boundaries. 

# The Post -Growth Solution 

We argue that s everal core post -growth ideas would substantially reduce AI risks as they would 

constrain runaway dynamics (growth, rebound, arms races) and help redirect AI development 

toward s improving human wellbeing . Post -growth, by emphasising social thresholds and 

environmental limits 71 , collective self -limitation 72,73 , and simply slowing down 74 , offers a positive 

alternative to the ideology of accelerationism .

## Optimising vs satisficing 

AI is often trained to optimise. However, optimisation can lead to perverse outcomes . In a 

famous thought experiment, known as the “paperclip maximiser”, Nick Bostrom proposed a 

scenario in which an AI was given the sole objective of making as many paperclips as possible, 

leading it to convert all available matter — including humans — into paperclips to achieve its 

goal 30 . Several leading AI scientists have argued that making machines maximise reward is not a 

good idea, and that the misalignment of AI systems with human intentions and values is caused 

by optimisation 48,75 .y = -0.166x + 0.699             

> R² = 0.27
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Job satisfaction and meaning
> Exposure to automation
> a2010 Data y = 0.046x + 0.597
> R² = 0.01
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Job satisfaction and meaning
> Exposure to automation
> b2023 Data

– 9 –

Post -growth offers an alternative idea: satisficing . Satisfi cing means sufficiently meeting needs ,

while respecting limits, rather than maximising or optimising outputs 34 . Satisficing does not 

mean merely solving a feasibility problem or stopping optimisation once minima are met. 

Instead, it refers to meeting multiple non ‑substitutable thresholds simultaneously, without 

pursuing any single objective to the extreme. 

The Doughnut of social and planetary boundaries, developed by economist Kate Raworth 35 , is a 

framework for satisficing. It visualises sustainability in terms of a doughnut -shaped space 

where resource use is high enough to meet people’s needs, but not so high that it transgresses 

planetary boundaries. The Doughnut provides a clear compass that could be used to guide AI 

development (Figure 4).                       

> Figure 4:Applying the Doughnut of social and planetary boundaries to assess and guide AI development. The
> Doughnut framework conceptualises sustainability as a “safe and just space” between a social foundation (inner
> ring) and ecological ceiling (outer ring). The inner ring depicts key social dimensions, where shortfall indicate sunmet
> human needs, while the outer ring represents Earth -system processes, where overshoot indicates transgression of
> planetary boundaries. The figure contrasts the global situation in 2022 with a hypothetical AI development scenario .
> In this scenario, AI deployment contributes to improvements in some social dimensions ( health, education, energy
> access, and connectivity )while exacerbating shortfalls in others (employment, equality, and social cohesion ).At the
> same time , AI helps to reduce pressures on some planetary boundaries (land conversion and nutrient pollution) while
> intensif ying others (climate change and freshwater use ).Source: O’Neill and Creutzig 76 ,using global data from
> Fanning and Raworth 20 .

The Doughnut provides an indicator framework to operationalise the recently proposed “Earth 

alignment principle” , which aims to align the “development, deployment and use of AI to 

promote planetary stability and stewardship for the benefit of humankind” 3. In the context of AI 

development, the goal should be to use AI to help eliminate social shortfalls and reduce 

resource use to be within planetary boundaries. We should prioritise socially and 

environmentally beneficial applications of AI (e.g. healthcare, environmental monitoring ), while 

restricting harmful or unnecessary uses (e.g. fossil fuel exploration, micro -targeted 

advertising) 77 . This approach is consistent with findings from demand ‑side studies, which show 

that prioritising need ‑satisfying activities can simultaneously lower resource use and improve 

wellbeing 22,23 .

If AI were tasked with “getting us into the Doughnut” — ensuring everyone has enough without 

overshooting planetary boundaries — it’s harder to imagine a dystopian paper clip maximiser 

outcome than if it were tasked with maximising GDP. – 10 –

In fact, w e think that training AI on the idea of endless growth, rather than the idea of enough, 

creates a large existential threat. A future superintelligent AI could continue to pursue this 

growth at the expense of humanity, seeing human beings as little more tha n additional 

resources to be exploited for its own expansion. 

To respond to the dangers of escalating resource use, and issues like the rebound effect, post -

growth provides policy solutions like resource caps and Pigouvian taxes 78 . Resource caps set 

physical limits on energy or material use, applied at production or consumption. For AI, this 

could involve restricting data centre energy use or implementing “compute budgets” 77 . These 

caps guarantee sustainability by preventing resource use beyond the set limit. Pigouvian taxes 

use pricing instead of quantity limits. By internalising environmental costs, high taxes ensure 

resource -intensive AI applications are only viable when they deliver proportional social 

benefits 77 .

## Governing AI 

Many authors claim that AI will help us solve major challenges like climate change, poverty, or 

clean energy 12,70,79 . But the reason we haven’t solved climate change isn’t a lack of technology .

We already have the technologies we need , and r enewables are cheaper than fossil fuels. The 

real barriers are social , economic, and political . They include e conomic structures, 

misinformation, and vested interests that prioritise profit over sustainability. 

AI may offer new solutions, but that doesn’t guarantee we’ll use them. We already know how to 

solve climate change — stop burning fossil fuels — yet we don’t. The issue isn’t knowledge, it’s 

action. 

As technology accelerates, our social systems struggle to keep pace. Thorstein Veblen observed 

over a century ago that technology evolves faster than institutions, leading to social and 

economic tensions 80 . We should not be governing 21 st century technology with 18 th century 

institutions. To manage powerful technologies like AI, we need equally sophisticated social 

systems. 

Post -growth calls for a deepening of democracy through approaches such as direct democracy, 

economic democracy, and public deliberation 81 . Redistribution of income, on its own, is not 

sufficient to achieve economic democracy, because it does not deal with disparities in wealth, 

and hence power 82 , which are likely to be critical issues for AI. Public deliberation means going 

beyond expert ‑only AI policy, and drawing on approaches such as citizens’ assemblies 83 and 

participatory workshops 84 .

Beyond deepening democracy, post -growth also offers important ideas on how to govern AI. We 

argue that AI should be governed as a global common s85 , with coordinated interventions across 

social, planetary, and safety domains. Data, energy, and compute are three important 

dimensions where regulations should be applied 10 . Polycentric governance, advanced by Elinor 

Ostrom, offers an alternative to both centralised control and market mechanisms for managing 

complex, high -stakes systems 86 . AI fits this model: it is global, fast -moving, multi ‑stakeholder, 

and characterised by collective ‑action problems and externalities. 

## Re structuring business 

At present , AI is being developed by Big Tech companies like Google and OpenAI , who are 

locked in an arms race with one another. These companies are incentivised by growth — in 

profits, data extraction , and market dominance 85 . A post -growth economy would foster 

business models that focus on improving human wellbeing and meeting societal needs , rather 

than pursuing profit as a goal 38,87,88 .

Two features of post -growth businesses are especially relevant to AI: democratic ownership and 

decision -making (e.g. worker cooperatives) and no t-for -profit /social -benefit business – 11 –

structures . Research suggests that companies with these features are more likely to satisfy 

people’s real needs and respond to environmental issues than shareholder -owned for -profit 

corporations 25,89 .

Given what is at stake, there is a strong ar gument for changing the ownership structure and 

relationship -to -profit of the Big Tech companies . AI research and development must be 

decoupled from the profit motive and align ed with societal wellbeing. Core AI labs could be 

converted to not -for -profit entities with a social benefit purpose and collective ownership. As AI 

becomes increasingly powerful, who owns the “means of computation” 90 is going to become 

increasingly important. A shift towards cooperatives would help reduce job losses from 

automation. 

However, g iven that the stakeholders in this technology are all of humanity, not just the 

employees of particular companies, there is also a strong argument for nationali sing AI 

development, or internationali sing it , by creating a collaborative research and development 

institution modelled on something like CERN. Leopol d Aschenbrenner , a former OpenAI 

employee, writes: “I find it an insane proposition that the US government will let a random SF 

startup develop superintelligence. Imagine if we had developed atomic bombs by letting Uber 

just improvise ”6. AI safety is a governance and political economy problem as much as it is a 

technical one. 

## Convivial technologies 

In his book Tools for Conviviality , Ivan Illich distinguish es between “industrial tools” , which 

create dependency and radical monopolies , and “convivial tools” , which enhance individual 

autonomy and can be controlled by the user 91 . More recent research has propose d the concept 

of “convivial technologies” and a matrix to assess the compatibility of different technologies 

with degrowth 92 .

Building on this work , w e argue that AI functions as a convivial technology when it operates as a 

tool , but not when it takes an agentic form that diminishes human autonomy. This implies 

prioritis ing “tool AI” (specialised systems that humans use to solve specific problems) over 

“agentic AI” (autonomous systems that make decisions on our behalf). The distinction is crucial 

as it determines whether AI extends human agency or replaces it. 

This concern is not merely philosophical. The current trajectory towards increasingly agentic AI 

potentially poses catastrophic risks, including deception and irreversible loss of human 

control 93 . In response, Yoshua Bengio and colleag ues propose developing “s cientist AI ” — a

non -agentic system designed to explain the world rather than act to change it 48 . They argue that 

a non -agentic scientist AI could be used to assist human researchers and accelerat e scientific 

progress , as AlphaFold has already done for the prediction of protein structures 94 . Non -agentic 

scientist AI would provide the benefits of AI for scientific discovery, without the existential risks .

Such a system would also preserve human autonomy and be a convivial technology, consistent 

with post -growth principles .

Post -growth research provides two additional strategies to help provide meaning and purpose in 

an AI future . The first is to re -anchor identity beyond paid work. Retirees provide a good 

example. When identity is not tied to employment, people lean into community, care, learning, 

nature, and civic roles 95 . Moreover, o nce people’s basic needs are met, non -material aspects 

like social relationships become a much stronger predictor of human wellbeing than additional 

consumption 38 .

The second strategy is collective self -limitation . Our brains evolved in an age of scarcity, and 

thus radical abundance could counterintuitively make people worse off, rather than better off. 

The unlimited pursuit of pleasure has been shown to lead to anhedonia — the inability to take 

pleasure in anything at all 96 . Post -growth argues that true freedom requires consciously setting 

limits on our desires , rather than allowing these to be determined by technology. Collective self -– 12 –

limitation can be achieved through direct democracy, with communities together deci ding what 

is “enough” 72,73 .

## A post -growth policy roadmap for AI 

According to the European Union’s Artificial Intelligence Act , AI should be “a tool for people, 

with the ultimate aim of increasing human well -being” 97 . But this will only happen if we define 

high -level societal goals first , and define them democratically. We can then use AI to help 

achieve the se goals .

There is a policy decision to be made about what we allow AI to do, and what we do not. The 

tasks that people enjoy doing include c reative, empathetic, and socially meaningful work (e.g. 

teaching, caregiving, arts, research). These roles provide purpose, autonomy, and human 

connection. The tasks that people dislike include r epetitive, dangerous, and monotonous work 

(e.g. data entry, hazardous labour, routine logistics) 67 . We must use AI to do the tasks that 

people don’t like to do, rather than the things that bring joy and meaning to people’s lives .

Instead of paying a universal basic income — which would provide financial security but risks 

creating a “meaning vacuum” — we could use AI -driven productivity gains to fund socially 

valuable jobs (a job guarantee ). The idea of a job guarantee is a well -established policy proposal 

in the post -growth literature 32,38 . It creates jobs that markets historically undervalue but society 

needs (e.g. mental health support, environmental restoration, education) — and that people 

enjoy doing. 

It seems unlikely that AI will deliver outcomes that improve human wellbeing if it is aligned with 

growth and the profit motive, and if development is driven by competition between companies 

in an arms race . But in a post -growth economy, it becomes much more realistic. 

In this article , we have examined some of the challenges posed by AI. Many post -growth polic y

proposals respond directly to the se challenges 32,61,62 . For example, t he top eight degrowth policy 

proposals, in descending order of how frequently they are cited in the literature, are: a universal 

basic income, working -time reduction, a job guarantee, maximum income caps, declining caps 

on resource use and emissions, not -for -profit cooperatives, deliberative forums, and reclaiming 

the commons 62 .

In Table 1, we present a summary of the main challenges, and corresponding post -growth policy 

solutions, that we have discussed. Although there are many issues associated with AI 

development that this roadmap does not consider, we believe it offers importa nt insights on 

how to address the social, environmental, and existential challenges posed by AI.                     

> Table 1: A post -growth policy roadmap to respond to the c hallenges posed by AI .
> Challenge posed by AI Post -growth policy solution
> Replacement of human labour Job guarantee; Working -time reduction; Universal basic income
> or universal public services .
> Rising i nequality Progressive taxation; Maximum income/wealth.
> Rebound effect Resource caps; Pigouvian taxes.
> Arms race between Big Tech companies Democratic ownership of companies ; No t-for -profit busines s
> models.
> Power asymmetries and unequal exchange
> between countries
> Govern AI as a global commons; Internationalise AI
> development; New measures of progress (e.g. the Doughnut).
> Undemocrati c decision -making Direct democracy; Economic democracy; Public participation;
> Polycentric governance.
> Loss of meaning, identity, and purpose Job guarantee; Increase social capital; Collective self -limitation;
> Re -anchor identity beyond paid work.
> The alignment problem Align the economic system with human wellbeing and
> environmental sustainability; Satisficing not optimising ;
> Prioritise tool AI over agentic AI.

– 13 –

# The Economics of AGI 

In this article, we have argued that AI research and development face an economic alignment 

problem. AI researchers are trying to align AI systems with human goals and values, but the 

economic system within which they are developing the technology is not a ligned with these 

goals and values. This creates substantial barriers to achieving AI alignment, and exacerbates 

safety, social, and planetary risks. Overall, there is a need for new interdisciplinary research on 

the economics of AGI , and better connection between the post -growth and AI safety 

communities. 

## Connecting research communities 

AI researchers should engage with post -growth scholarship . The alignment problem in AI 

research is not just a technical problem; it is also an economic problem. Post -growth offers the 

solution of satisficing over optimising, which would help reduce AI risks, and frameworks such 

as the Doughnut, which could be us ed to guide AI development. It also offers insights into what 

humans might do in an AI future, and the policies needed to get there (e.g. universal public 

services, a job guarantee, wealth taxation). Beyond policies, post -growth brings a systemic 

perspective, democratic governance approaches, and tools to evaluate AI development 

scenarios. 

At the same time, post -growth researchers should engage with AI. AI capabilities are growing 

exponentially, and change will happen faster than people expect. AI potentially presents an 

existential risk that could be greater than climate change , biodiversity loss, or any other socio -

ecological problem to date . It poses challenges for all three of post -growth’s goals: wellbeing, 

equity, and sustainability. The development of AGI could make human labour unnecessary, 

leading to massive inequality in one extreme , or radical abundance for all in another. The first 

alternative seems more likely under capitalism. The second more likely with post -growth. 

Without resource caps , demand -side measures, or other post -growth policies, AI could lead to 

higher environmental pressures — directly via economic growth or indirectly via the rebound 

effect. 

Demis Hassabis , the CEO and co -founder of Google DeepMind , has argued that AGI will allow 

us to enter a world of radical abundance in which people no longer feel trapped in a zero -sum 

game. Hassabis argues that if economists believed AGI was as close as the AI scientists do ,

then they would be thinking more seriously about the economics of AGI — that a new 

economics is needed 70 .

We believe that e conomists, AI researchers, and other scientists who are concerned with 

human wellbeing, social equity, and environmental sustainability should begin to work on the 

economics of AGI — what we might also call “post -AGI economics”. This task is urgent. AGI is 

coming, and society is dangerously unprepared. Although AGI holds enormous potential to 

improve the human condition, with in the current economic system , the advent of AGI could be a

disaster, leading to rising inequality, environmental de gradation, and existential risks. 

## Towards the economics of AGI 

Although it is far too early to outline a full economics of AGI, we suggest that insights from 

post ‑growth research may offer a useful starting point. As we have argued, if AI were developed 

in a post -growth economy, the risks would likely be much less :

• AI would be developed in an economic system that is aligned with human wellbeing and 

environmental sustainability ;

• The development and use of technology would be driven by what is socially and 

environmentally beneficial; 

• The goal would be sufficiency rather than exponential growth ;– 14 –

• The arms race between companies pursuing profit would be mitigated; 

• There would be s trong policies to limit inequality and ensure the benefits of AI are shared. 

Taken together, these ideas outline how a post -growth economy might reduce AGI -related risks. 

Yet they are only part of the picture. Additional questions arise around the role of models, 

markets, and democratic governance . Macroeconomic models of AI are still in their 

infancy 52,55,98,99 , and focus mainly on labour automation. These models do not include the wider 

environmental and social impacts that that AGI is likely to have. However, e cological 

macroeconomic models, such as EUROGREEN 100 or the COMPASS model of the Doughnut of 

social and planetary boundaries 101 , do include the se variables . They could be used to assess AI 

scenarios and help guide its development towards a good life for all people within planetary 

boundaries. 

Empirical studies suggest that meeting the basic needs of all people at a sustainable level of 

resource use requires substantial changes to provisioning systems 71,102 . However, t here is little 

reason to believe that contemporary capitalist economies are the most efficient way to achieve 

this outcome 95 . Markets allocate resources based on people’s ability to pay, which is often 

highly unequal, while a significant share of economic activity is diverted toward s profit -seeking 

activities, rather than need -satisfying activities 89 . Moreover, markets reflect wants, not needs ,

and these wants are heavily influenced by advertising 103 . P eople do not always want — or even 

recognise — the things that are most likely to improve their long -term wellbeing, and the pursuit 

of short -term rewards can undermine it 96 .

A long -standing critique of alternatives to capitalist market -based economies is the 

computational difficulty of efficient top -down decision -making 51 . However, w ith AGI, the 

constraint on computational complexity might no longer apply . Advanced AI models might 

understand human needs better than current institutions do , and the most resource -efficient 

ways to satisfy them. With AGI, it is possible that we could move beyond the price mechanism 

to allocate resources in the economy. Resources could be allocated based on people’s genuine 

needs , through universal public services. AGI could facilitate a new form of democratic 

socialism in which advanced AI too ls provided a wide range of policy options that were 

consistent with environmental and social sustainability. Human agency could be increased 

through public deliberation on these options, with decisions made via direct democracy .

These possibilities illustrate the opportunities AGI could open , but they also highlight the need 

for clarity about the ultimate purpose of such technologies. Ultimately, AI must be a means to 

an end — not an end in itself. Just as GDP growth was never meant to b e society’s goal, neither 

is AI development. If AI is developed safely, and the benefits are distributed equitably, then it 

could potentially improve human wellbeing dramatically . However, if AI is not developed safely, 

or the benefits accrue only to a privileged few, then the result could be a d ystopian future of 

rising inequality , environmental collapse, or even human extinction. We still have the agency to 

choose our future. 

# Acknowledgements 

We are grateful to Giorgos Kallis, Philipp Wiesner, and Michael O’Neill for their insightful 

comments, which helped improve the manuscript. We also thank the participants in the special 

session on post -growth and artificial intelligence at the ISEE –Degrowth 2025 Conference in 

Oslo, as well as attendees of the AI + Environment Summit 2025 in Zurich, for their thoughtful 

feedback. This research was supported by the European Union’s Horizon Europe Research and 

Innovation Programme under grant agreement No. 101 137914 (MAPS : Models, Assessment , and 

Policies for Sustainability ).– 15 –

# References 

1. Amodei, D. Machines of Loving Grace: How AI Could Transform the World for the Better (2024); 

https://www.darioamodei.com/essay/machines -of -loving -grace 

2. Yudkowsky, E. & Soares, N. If Anyone Builds It, Everyone Dies: Why Superhuman AI Would Kill Us All 

(Little, Brown and Company, 2025). 

3. Gaffney, O. et al. The Earth alignment principle for artificial intelligence. Nat. Sustain. 8, 467 –469 

(2025). 

4. Maslej, N. et al. The AI Index 2025 Annual Report (Institute for Human -Centered AI, Stanford 

University, 2025); https://hai.stanford.edu/assets/files/hai_ai_index_report_2025.pdf 

5. Feng, T. et al. How far are we from AGI: Are LLMs all we need? Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.10313 (2024). 

6. Aschenbrenner, L. Situational Awareness: The Decade Ahead (2024); https://situational -

awareness.ai/ 

7. Chen, E. K., Belkin, M., Bergen, L. & Danks, D. Does AI already have human -level intelligence? The 

evidence is clear. Nature 650 , 36 –40 (2026). 

8. Grace, K. et al. Thousands of AI authors on the future of AI. Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.02843 (2024). 

9. Bengio, Y. et al. International Scientific Report on the Safety of Advanced AI: Interim Report (UK 

Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, 2024); 

https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/international -scientific -report -on -the -safety -of -

advanced -ai 

10. Creutzig, F. et al. Governing artificial intelligence for planetary health. Lancet Planet. Health 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lanplh.2025.101408 (2026). 

11. Carmeno, N. L., O’Neill, D. W. & Domingos, T. The impacts of artificial intelligence on environmental 

sustainability and human wellbeing. (2026). 

12. Vinuesa, R. et al. The role of artificial intelligence in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. 

Nat. Commun. 11 , 233 (2020). 

13. Kaack, L. H. et al. Aligning artificial intelligence with climate change mitigation. Nat. Clim. Change 

12 , 518 –527 (2022). 

14. Galaz, V. & Schewenius, M. (eds). AI for a Planet Under Pressure (Stockholm Resilience Centre, 

Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, 2025). 

15. Creutzig, F. et al. Digitalization and the Anthropocene. Annu. Rev. Environ. Resour. 47 , 479 –509 

(2022). 

16. Luccioni, A. S., Strubell, E. & Crawford, K. From efficiency gains to rebound effects: The problem of 

Jevons’ paradox in AI’s polarized environmental debate. Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2501.16548 (2025). 

17. Luers, A. et al. Will AI accelerate or delay the race to net -zero emissions? Nature 628 , 718 –720 

(2024). 

18. Strubell, E., Ganesh, A. & McCallum, A. Energy and policy considerations for deep learning in NLP. 

Preprint at https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1906.02243 (2019). 

19. Sakschewski, B. et al. Planetary Health Check 2025: A Scientific Assessment of the State of the 

Planet (Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, 2025); 

https://doi.org/10.48485/pik.2025.017 

20. Fanning, A. L. & Raworth, K. Doughnut of social and planetary boundaries monitors a world out of 

balance. Nature 646 , 47 –56 (2025). 

21. Costanza, R., Eastoe, J., Hoekstra, R., Kubiszewski, I. & O’Neill, D. W. Beyond growth — why we 

need to agree on an alternative to GDP now. Nature 647 , 589 –591 (2025). 

22. Creutzig, F. et al. Demand -side solutions to climate change mitigation consistent with high levels of 

well -being. Nat. Clim. Change 12 , 36 –46 (2022). 

23. Creutzig, F. et al. Demand -side strategies key for mitigating material impacts of energy transitions. 

Nat. Clim. Change 14 , 561 –572 (2024). 

24. Kerschner, C., Wächter, P., Nierling, L. & Ehlers, M. H. Degrowth and technology: Towards feasible, 

viable, appropriate and convivial imaginaries. J. Clean. Prod. 197 , 1619 –1636 (2018). 

25. Pansera, M. & Fressoli, M. Innovation without growth: Frameworks for understanding technological 

change in a post -growth era. Organization 28 , 380 –404 (2021). 

26. Sharma, A., Jiménez, A., Smith, A. & Boni, A. Rethinking innovation for a post -growth society. Sci. 

Technol. Soc. 30 , 327 –342 (2025). – 16 –

27. Pueyo, S. Growth, degrowth, and the challenge of artificial superintelligence. J. Clean. Prod. 197 ,

1731 –1736 (2018). 

28. Meyers, M. Artificial intelligence in a degrowth context: A conviviality perspective on machine 

learning. GAIA - Ecol. Perspect. Sci. Soc. 33 , 186 –192 (2024). 

29. Hendrycks, D. et al. A definition of AGI. Preprint at https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2510.18212 

(2025). 

30. Bostrom, N. Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies (Oxford University Press, 2014). 

31. Kurzweil, R. The Singularity Is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology (Viking, 2005). 

32. Kallis, G. et al. Post -growth: the science of wellbeing within planetary boundaries. Lancet Planet. 

Health 9, e62 –e78 (2025). 

33. D’Alisa, G., Demaria, F. & Kallis, G. (eds). Degrowth: A Vocabulary for a New Era (Routledge, 2015). 

34. Daly, H. E. Steady -State Economics: The Economics of Biophysical Equilibrium and Moral Growth 

(W.H. Freeman, 1977). 

35. Raworth, K. Doughnut Economics: Seven Ways to Think Like a 21st -Century Economist (Random 

House, 2017). 

36. Fioramonti, L. et al. Wellbeing economy: An effective paradigm to mainstream post -growth 

policies? Ecol. Econ. 192 , 107261 (2022). 

37. Haberl, H. et al. A systematic review of the evidence on decoupling of GDP, resource use and GHG 

emissions, part II: synthesizing the insights. Environ. Res. Lett. 15 , 1 –43 (2020). 

38. Dietz, R. & O’Neill, D. W. Enough Is Enough: Building a Sustainable Economy in a World of Finite 

Resources (Berrett -Koehler, 2013). 

39. Van Eynde, R., Dillman, K. J., Vogel, J. & O’Neill, D. W. What is required for a post -growth model? 

Ecol. Econ. 243 , 108928 (2026). 

40. Meadows, D. H., Meadows, D., Randers, J. & Behrens III, W. W. The Limits to Growth. A Report for 

the Club of Rome’s Project on the Predicament of Mankind (Earth Island, 1972). 

41. Ji, J. et al. AI alignment: A comprehensive survey. Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.19852 (2023). 

42. GrowthBusters. Limits to Growth: Bacteria in a Bottle (2012); 

https://youtu.be/A8ILwueoMoE?si=iP6Z_QTjFT8UFpUy 

43. Sevilla, J. & Roldán, E. Training Compute of Frontier AI Models Grows by 4 -5x Per Year (Epoch AI, 

2024); https://epoch.ai/blog/training -compute -of -frontier -ai -models -grows -by -4-5x -per -year 

44. Kwa, T. et al. Measuring AI ability to complete long tasks. Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2503.14499 (2025). 

45. Metaculus. When will the first general AI system be devised, tested, and publicly announced? 

(2026); https://www.metaculus.com/questions/5121/date -of -artificial -general -intelligence/ 

46. Eloundou, T., Manning, S., Mishkin, P. & Rock, D. GPTs are GPTs: Labor market impact potential of 

LLMs. Science 384 , 1306 –1308 (2024). 

47. Peppiatt, C. The future of work: Inequality, artificial intelligence, and what can be done about it. A 

literature review. Preprint at https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2408.13300 (2024). 

48. Bengio, Y. et al. Superintelligent agents pose catastrophic risks: Can scientist AI offer a safer path? 

Preprint at https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2502.15657 (2025). 

49. Damiani, J. What is Accelerationism? A Primer on the Defining Philosophy of Our Time, Including 

Effective Accelerationism (e/acc), the Dark Enlightenment, & More (2025); 

https://www.realitystudies.co/p/what -is -accelerationism -effective -eacc -nick -land -mark -fisher 

50. e/acc newsletter. what the f* is e/acc (2022); 

https://effectiveaccelerationism.substack.com/p/what -the -f-is -eacc 

51. Andreessen, M. The Techno -Optimist Manifesto (2023); https://a16z.com/the -techno -optimist -

manifesto/ 

52. Freire, C. Is this time different? Impact of AI in output, employment and inequality across low, 

middle and high -income countries. Struct. Change Econ. Dyn. 73 , 136 –157 (2025). 

53. Acemoglu, D. The simple macroeconomics of AI. Econ. Policy 40 , 13 –58 (2025). 

54. Goldman Sachs. The Potentially Large Effects of Artificial Intelligence on Economic Growth 

(Goldman Sachs, 2023); 

https://www.gspublishing.com/content/research/en/reports/2023/03/27/d64e052b -0f6e -45d7 -

967b -d7be35fabd16.html 

55. Korinek, A. & Suh, D. Scenarios for the Transition to AGI (National Bureau of Economic Research, 

2024); https://doi.org/10.3386/w32255 

56. MIRI. Yudkowsky and Christiano discuss “Takeoff Speeds” (2021); 

https://intelligence.org/2021/11/22/yudkowsky -and -christiano -discuss -takeoff -speeds/ – 17 –

57. Polimeni, J. M., Mayumi, K., Giampietro, M. & Alcott, B. The Jevons Paradox and the Myth of 

Resource Efficiency Improvements (Earthscan, 2008). 

58. Acemoglu, D. & Restrepo, P. Automation and new tasks: How technology displaces and reinstates 

labor. J. Econ. Perspect. 33 , 3 –30 (2019). 

59. Criddle, C. Computer scientist Geoffrey Hinton: ‘AI will make a few people much richer and most 

people poorer’. Financial Times (2025); https://www.ft.com/content/31feb335 -4945 -475e -baaa -

3b880d9cf8ce 

60. Hazra, S., Majumder, B. P. & Chakrabarty, T. Position: AI safety should prioritize the future of work. 

Preprint at https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.13959 (2025). 

61. Cosme, I., Santos, R. & O’Neill, D. W. Assessing the degrowth discourse: A review and analysis of 

academic degrowth policy proposals. J. Clean. Prod. 149 , 321 –334 (2017). 

62. Fitzpatrick, N., Parrique, T. & Cosme, I. Exploring degrowth policy proposals: A systematic mapping 

with thematic synthesis. J. Clean. Prod. 365 , 132764 (2022). 

63. Lehuedé, S. An elemental ethics for artificial intelligence: water as resistance within AI’s value 

chain. AI Soc. 40 , 1761 –1774 (2025). 

64. Altenried, M. The platform as factory: Crowdwork and the hidden labour behind artificial 

intelligence. Cap. Cl. 44 , 1 –14 (2020). 

65. Birhane, A. Algorithmic colonization of Africa. SCRIPTed 17 , 389 –409 (2020). 

66. Keynes, J. M. Economic possibilities for our grandchildren in Essays in Persuasion 358 –373 (W. W. 

Norton & Co., 1963). 

67. Jacobs, A., Verhofstadt, E. & Van Ootegem, L. Unravelling the link between automatability and job 

satisfaction. J. Labor Res. 44 , 199 –227 (2023). 

68. Liu, L. Job quality and automation: Do more automatable occupations have less job satisfaction 

and health? J. Ind. Relat. 65 , 72 –87 (2023). 

69. Frey, C. B. & Osborne, M. A. The future of employment: How susceptible are jobs to 

computerisation? Technol. Forecast. Soc. Change 114 , 254 –280 (2017). 

70. Wired. Demis Hassabis on the Future of Work in the Age of AI (2025); 

https://youtu.be/CRraHg4Ks_g?si=Jzp3WL_JEZvLPK03 

71. O’Neill, D. W., Fanning, A. L., Lamb, W. F. & Steinberger, J. K. A good life for all within planetary 

boundaries. Nat. Sustain. 1, 88 –95 (2018). 

72. Asara, V., Profumi, E. & Kallis, G. Degrowth, democracy and autonomy. Environ. Values 22 , 217 –239 

(2013). 

73. Kallis, G. Limits: Why Malthus Was Wrong and Why Environmentalists Should Care (Stanford 

University Press, 2019). 

74. Victor, P. A. Managing without Growth: Slower by Design, Not Disaster (Edward Elgar, 2019). 

75. Zhuang, S. & Hadfield -Menell, D. Consequences of misaligned AI. Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.03896 (2021). 

76. O’Neill, D. W. & Creutzig, F. A strong sustainability approach to AI development. (2026). 

77. Wiesner, P., O’Neill, D. W., Larosa, F. & Kao, O. Efficiency will not lead to sustainable reasoning AI. 

Preprint at https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2511.15259 (2025). 

78. Alcott, B. Impact caps: why population, affluence and technology strategies should be abandoned. 

J. Clean. Prod. 18 , 552 –560 (2010). 

79. Rolnick, D. et al. Tackling climate change with machine learning. ACM Comput. Surv. 55 , 42 (2022). 

80. Veblen, T. The Theory of the Leisure Class (Prometheus Books, 1998). 

81. Cattaneo, C., D’Alisa, G., Kallis, G. & Zografos, C. Degrowth futures and democracy. Futures 44 ,

515 –523 (2012). 

82. Johanisova, N. & Wolf, S. Economic democracy: A path for the future? Futures 44 , 562 –570 (2012). 

83. Koch, M. Deepening the degrowth planning debate: division of labor, complexity, and the roles of 

markets and digital tools. Sustain. Sci. Pract. Policy 20 , (2024). 

84. Cattaneo, C. et al. Ecological economics into action: Lessons from the Barcelona city doughnut. 

Ecol. Econ. 236 , 108667 (2025). 

85. Verdegem, P. Dismantling AI capitalism: the commons as an alternative to the power concentration 

of Big Tech. AI Soc. 39 , 727 –737 (2024). 

86. Ostrom, E. Polycentric systems for coping with collective action and global environmental change. 

Glob. Environ. Change 20 , 550 –557 (2010). 

87. Khmara, Y. & Kronenberg, J. Degrowth in business: An oxymoron or a viable business model for 

sustainability? J. Clean. Prod. 177 , 721 –731 (2018). 

88. Nesterova, I. Degrowth business framework: Implications for sustainable development. J. Clean. 

Prod. 262 , 121382 (2020). – 18 –

89. Hinton, J. B. Fit for purpose? Clarifying the critical role of profit for sustainability. J. Polit. Ecol. 27 ,

236 –262 (2020). 

90. Doctorow, C. The Internet Con: How to Seize the Means of Computation (Verso, 2023). 

91. Illich, I. Tools for Conviviality (Fontana/Collins, 1973). 

92. Vetter, A. The Matrix of Convivial Technology – Assessing technologies for degrowth. J. Clean. Prod. 

197 , 1778 –1786 (2018). 

93. Bengio, Y. et al. Managing extreme AI risks amid rapid progress. Science 384 , 842 –845 (2024). 

94. Jumper, J. et al. Highly accurate protein structure prediction with AlphaFold. Nature 596 , 583 –589 

(2021). 

95. Jackson, T. Prosperity without Growth: Foundations for the Economy of Tomorrow (Routledge, 

2017). 

96. Lembke, A. Dopamine Nation: Finding Balance in the Age of Indulgence (Dutton, 2021). 

97. European Union. Artificial Intelligence Act (Official Journal of the European Union, 2024); 

https://eur -lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1689/oj 

98. Berg, A., Buffie, E. F. & Zanna, L. -F. Should we fear the robot revolution? (The correct answer is yes). 

J. Monet. Econ. 97 , 117 –148 (2018). 

99. Erdil, E. et al. GATE: An integrated assessment model for AI automation. Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2503.04941 (2025). 

100. D’Alessandro, S., Cieplinksi, A., Distefano, T. & Dittmer, K. Feasible alternatives to green growth. 

Nat. Sustain. 3, 329 –335 (2020). 

101. Vogel, J. et al. COMPASS: A Social -Ecological Macroeconomic Model for Guiding Pathways to 

Equitable Human Wellbeing within Planetary Boundaries (ToBe Research Project, 2025); 

https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15655594 

102. McElroy, C. & O’Neill, D. W. The labour and resource use requirements of a good life for all. Glob. 

Environ. Change 92 , 103008 (2025). 

103. Pappalardo, L. et al. A survey on the impact of AI -based recommenders on human behaviours: 

methodologies, outcomes and future directions. Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.01630 (2024).