Title: NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.02137v1

Published Time: Tue, 03 Mar 2026 04:10:08 GMT

Number of Pages: 13

Markdown Content:
# NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising ∗

## Yiyan Xu 

yiyanxu24@gmail.com University of Science and Technology of China China, Hefei 

## Ruoxuan Xia 

nozickjimmie487@gmail.com Hohai University China, Nanjing 

## Wuqiang Zheng 

qqqqqzheng@gmail.com University of Science and Technology of China China, Hefei 

## Fengbin Zhu 

zhfengbin@gmail.com National University of Singapore Singapore, Singapore 

## Wenjie Wang 

wenjiewang96@gmail.com University of Science and Technology of China China, Hefei 

## Fuli Feng 

fulifeng93@gmail.com University of Science and Technology of China China, Hefei 

## Abstract 

With the rapid growth of online video consumption, video adver-tising has become increasingly dominant in the digital advertising landscape. Yet diverse users and viewing contexts makes one-size-fits-all ad creatives insufficient for consistent effectiveness, under-lining the importance of personalization. In practice, most person-alized video advertising systems follow a retrieval-based paradigm, selecting the optimal one from a small set of professionally pre-produced creatives for each user. Such static and finite inventories limits both the granularity and the timeliness of personalization, and prevents the creatives from being continuously refined based on online user feedback. Recent advances in generative AI make it possible to move beyond retrieval toward optimizing video creatives in a continuous space at serving time. In this light, we propose NextAds, a generation-based par-adigm for next-generation personalized video advertising, and conceptualize NextAds with four core components. To enable comparable research progress, we formulate two representative tasks: personalized creative generation and personalized creative integration, and introduce corresponding lightweight benchmarks. To assess feasibility, we instantiate end-to-end pipelines for both tasks and conduct initial exploratory experiments, demonstrating that GenAI can generate and integrate personalized creatives with encouraging performance. Moreover, we discuss the key challenges and opportunities under this paradigm, aiming to provide actionable insights for both researchers and practitioners and to catalyze progress in personalized video advertising.   

> ∗Project Page: https://nextadsdemo.netlify.app. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
> Conference acronym ’XX, Woodstock, NY
> ©2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06 https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

## CCS Concepts 

• Information systems → Computational advertising ; Multi-media content creation ; Personalization .

## Keywords 

Video Advertising, Personalized Generation, Video Generation 

ACM Reference Format: 

Yiyan Xu, Ruoxuan Xia, Wuqiang Zheng, Fengbin Zhu, Wenjie Wang, and Fuli Feng. 2018. NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference title from your rights confirmation email (Conference acronym ’XX). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 13 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX 

## 1 Introduction Low 

High 

High Degree of Personalization 

> Degree of  Nativeness

Broadcast TV ads 

Billboard ads 

Influencer ads 

Product placement 

Retargeting ads 

Programmatic 

display ads 

Search ads 

Branded content 

NextAds 

Dynamic creative 

optimization 

Figure 1: The evolution of video advertising has largely progressed along the axes of personalization and nativeness, yet high production costs and manual creative bottlenecks prevent the industry from reaching the upper-right corner. 

As the financial backbone of the internet ecosystem, digital adver-tising serves as the primary revenue engine for social media, content platforms, and the broader app economy [ 31 ]. By funding content creation and delivery at scale, it sustains free online services while shaping how users access and engage with information. Over the past decades, research and industry practice have largely centered on refining targeting, allocation, and auction mechanisms to expose ads to the right audiences at the right time [ 3, 13 , 20 , 22 , 25 ]. As these mechanisms approach saturation, the next frontier of performance             

> arXiv:2603.02137v1 [cs.IR] 2 Mar 2026 Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY Yiyan Xu et al. # Age: 34
> # Nature lover
> # Family-oriented
> Road trip
> Road trip
> Travel vlog
> Currently viewing
> User-specific Data
> 2026 Toyota RAV4
> ......
> Target Product
> Viewing history
> Static creative inventory
> Tech Commute Travel Family User
> feedback
> Pre-
> produce Retrieve
> Fail to optimize
> Limited user resonance and advertising effectiveness
> Retrieval-based Paradigm
> NextAds Paradigm
> GenAI
> Personalized Creative Generation
> Personalized Creative Integration
> [Family] [road trip] in [New Zealand] with [Toyota RAV4]
> Seamless integration
> User
> feedback
> Ad-as-Content
> On-the-fly optimization
> Experts
> Contexts Ad-in-Content

Figure 2: Paradigm shift: from retrieval to generation. Nex-tAds transforms personalized video advertising from static retrieval over a discrete creative inventory to dynamic generation-based optimization in a continuous space. 

gains increasingly hinges on the ad creative itself: whether the ad earns attention, builds trust, and ultimately resonates with its audiences [ 6, 47 ]. This elevates creative optimization, which adapts advertising content to specific users and contexts, as a central determinant of advertising effectiveness [31, 49]. Among all formats, video stands at the forefront of this creative-centric shift. With user attention increasingly concentrated in video-first platforms such as YouTube and TikTok, video advertising has become one of the fastest-growing segments [ 48 , 50 ]. Industry forecasts project video advertising to expand by roughly 16% annually from 2026 to 2033 [ 35 ]. Compared with text and static image ads, video enables richer storytelling and stronger narrative immersion, which can translate into deeper resonance and engage-ment [ 31 ]. Revisiting the evolution of video advertising through the lens of creative optimization, as illustrated in Figure 1, industry practice largely follows two trajectories: 1) personalization , which measures how well the creative aligns with user preferences and intent; 2) nativeness , which captures how seamlessly a creative integrates into its surrounding content and viewing context, thereby minimizing intrusiveness and enhancing experiential coherence. However, video creatives remain expensive, professionally pro-duced artifacts with limited throughput and long production cycles, which restrict the quantity and diversity of deployable creatives. As a result, simultaneously achieving high personalization and high nativeness remains largely unattainable in practice. Under such constraints, the industry has converged on a retrieval-based paradigm: as shown in Figure 2, advertisers often employ professional experts to pre-produce a limited set of candidate video creatives or modular assets for the target product, retrieving (and optionally assembling) the most suitable variant to match user preferences and contexts at serving time [ 23 , 27 , 28 ]. While practical, this paradigm faces two fundamental limitations: 1) Static inven-tory constraints : such static and finite creative inventories struggle to accommodate rapidly evolving, heterogeneous user preferences, thereby limiting user resonance and advertising effectiveness; and 

2) Feedback latency : user feedback ( e.g., dwell time, conversions) only serve to inform subsequent production cycles, failing to refine in-flight video creatives, thus creating a significant latency between performance signals and creative production. Recent advances in Generative AI (GenAI) offer a promising pathway to transcend these limitations. In particular, 1) modern Vision-Language Models (VLMs), such as GPT [ 18 ] and Gemini [ 10 ]have demonstrated exceptional proficiency in instruction-following, multimodal understanding and reasoning, enabling precise user preference modeling for downstream personalization [ 42 , 43 ]. 2) The latest video generation models ( e.g., Sora [ 30 ] and Veo [ 11 ]) facilitate near-instant synthesis of high-fidelity, cinematic video creatives with marginal costs far below manual production. 3) Most importantly, these models support on-the-fly optimization based on online user feedback, enabling creatives to evolve during deploy-ment [ 45 ]. Collectively, these advances are driving a paradigm shift from static retrieval to dynamic generation, where video creatives are no longer fixed artifacts selected from a finite pool, but adaptive assets synthesized and can continuously optimized on-the-fly to better align with individual preferences and contexts. In this perspective, we propose NextAds , a generation-based paradigm towards next-generation personalized video advertising. Technically, as illustrated in Figure 2, given a target product (e.g., key selling points, available assets), user-specific data ( e.g., 

demographics, behavioral history), and contextual information ( e.g., 

the video currently being viewed), NextAds leverages GenAI to synthesize personalized video creatives that align with individual preferences, comply with current contexts, and remain faithful to the underlying product information. More importantly, once deployed, NextAds can further incorporate online user feedback to iteratively refine creatives across impressions, enabling closed-loop creative evolution and progressive storytelling over longer horizons. To make this paradigm actionable, we conceptualize NextAds as a modular system with four core components: 1) Director , which produces a personalized, context-aware creative plan; 2) Producer ,which realizes the plan into candidate creatives, 3) Verifier , which acts as the utility-and-compliance gatekeeper, and 4) Reflector ,which converts verification outcomes and online feedback into minimal revisions for iterative refinement. To move beyond a purely conceptual proposal and enable com-parable research progress, we formulate two representative tasks that capture common pathways in real-world video advertising, as shown in Figure 2: 1) Personalized Creative Generation (PCG) ,which synthesizes personalized video creatives as standalone content; 2) Personalized Creative Integration (PCI) , which seamlessly embeds advertising messages into an existing host video ( e.g., the video currently being viewed) in a personalized and native manner without degrading viewing experiences. To support systematic evaluation, we further construct two lightweight benchmarks: PCG-Bench and PCI-Bench, for these tasks. Moreover, we instantiate end-to-end pipelines for both tasks and conduct exploratory experiments on both benchmarks. Empirical results suggest that existing GenAI can capture user preferences with meaningful accuracy, and can both generate and integrate video creatives with promising quality, personalization, and nativeness. Finally, we discuss key challenges and opportunities under the NextAds paradigm, along with actionable directions for future NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY 

research and deployment. Our code, benchmarks are available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/NextAds. In summary, our contributions can be concluded as follows: 

• We introduce NextAds, shifting personalized video advertising from static retrieval over a discrete creative inventory to dynamic, generation-based optimization in a continuous creative space. 

• We conceptualize a modular architecture of NextAds with 

Director , Producer , Verifier , and Reflector , forming a closed loop that enables iterative refinement via pre-deployment verification and post-deployment user feedback. 

• We formulate two representative tasks and construct corre-sponding lightweight benchmarks to catalyze research progress under the NextAds paradigm and enable fair comparison across different system designs and algorithms. 

• We instantiate end-to-end pipelines for both tasks and conduct exploratory experiments to investigate the feasibility of NextAds, and highlight practical challenges and opportunities for future research and deployment. 

## 2 Paradigm Shift: From Retrieval to Generation 

Personalized video advertising aims to optimize advertising effec-tiveness by adapting video ads to individual users and contexts. In this work, we focus on creative optimization, i.e., tailoring the video content itself, such as storyline, visuals, and narration. 

• Problem formalization. Given a user 𝑢 , target product 𝑝 , context 

𝑐 , the goal of creative personalization is to produce a video creative 

𝑣 that maximizes the advertising utility: 

𝑣 = arg max   

> 𝑣 ∈ V

𝑈 (𝑣 |𝑢, 𝑝, 𝑐 ), (1) where V denotes the creative space, and 𝑈 (·) is the utility function. 

• Retrieval as a practical approximation. In practice, optimizing creatives over the continuous creative space V was impractical due to the high fixed costs, long iteration cycles, and reliance on specialized professional expertise inherent in video production. As a result, most existing systems adopt a retrieval-based paradigm: advertisers rely on professional teams to pre-produce a finite creative pool P = {𝑣 1, . . . , 𝑣 𝑁 }, reducing continuous creative optimization to discrete selection: 

𝑣 = arg max   

> 𝑣 ∈ P

𝑈 (𝑣 |𝑢, 𝑝, 𝑐 ). (2) By approximating the infinite, continuous creative space with a finite discrete creative pool, this paradigm induces two inherent limitations: 1) the finite and static creative pool struggles to cover diverse user preferences and contextual variations; and 2) user feedback can only be incorporated in subsequent production cycles instead of refining creatives already in deployment, thereby bounding advertising effectiveness. 

• Revisiting creative personalization with GenAI. The rapid development of GenAI dramatically changes this landscape, stream-lining the video creative production process into a low-cost, low-barrier, and fast-iterating workflow. By effectively lifting production capacity constraints, GenAI enables a return to first-principles optimization over the continuous creative space V.

## 3 NextAds Paradigm 

In this section, we present NextAds , a novel paradigm that harnesses GenAI to transform creative optimization from static retrieval-based selection to dynamic generation-based optimization. 

## 3.1 Paradigm Principles 

NextAds is a generation-based, closed-loop paradigm for video creative optimization. Empowered by GenAI, it revisits the original objective of optimizing video creatives in the continuous creative space, and turns creative optimization from pool-based selection into 

serving-time, closed-loop optimization . We articulate the paradigm through the following key principles: 

• Continuous optimization. Video creatives are continually synthesized and optimized with GenAI, rather than selected from a finite, pre-produced video pool. 

• Plan-as-interface. A structured creative plan ( e.g., user profile, storyboard) serves as the first-class intermediate interface to improve controllability, editability, and accountability. 

• Grounded generation. Generated creatives must be grounded in eligible assets and verified product facts to ensure faithfulness and reduce hallucinations. 

• Pre-deployment verification. Creatives must be adhere to strict constraints, such as platform policy, safety, privacy bound-aries, and fairness, thereby demanding rigorous constraint-aware verification prior to deployment. 

• Dynamic refinement. Verification results and online interaction signals can be converted into actionable updates during serving, enabling iterative and timely refinement of creatives. 

## 3.2 System Architecture 

Motivated by the above principles, as depicted in Figure 3, we conceptualize NextAds as a modular system with four components: 

Director , Producer , Verifier , and Reflector , decomposing creative optimization into planning, generation, verification, and reflection. 

3.2.1 Director . As the strategic decision-making module, Director 

is responsible for generating a personalized and context-aware creative plan, based on current contexts, including both content context ( e.g., user currently viewing content) and delivery con-straints ( e.g., platform policies). The generated plan should define what should be communicated, how it should be presented, and which assets should be used to ground the generation process. Concretely, we break down the planning procedure into four steps: 

• User modeling. Based on user specific-data, such as demo-graphics and behavioral history, Director infers users’ con-tent consumption preferences, including topical interests ( e.g., 

gaming, travel), preferred presentation styles ( e.g., humorous, informative), implicit needs ( e.g., quality-of-life, self-expression), and decision-making tendencies ( e.g., price-sensitive, quality-oriented). This step yields a structured user profile and can be continuously updated as new behaviors are observed. 

• User-product matching. Given the user profile and product information, Director performs bidirectional matching: it selects and prioritizes the product features that are most appealing to the user, while choosing user-relevant topics and scenarios that best fit the product positioning to contextualize the creative. Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY Yiyan Xu et al. Utility             

> Verification
> Compliance
> Verification User
> Modeling
> User-product
> Matching
> Storyboard
> Generation
> Asset
> Grounding
> Director Producer Verifier
> User Candidate
> Creatives
> Creative Plan
> ACCEPT
> REVISE /REJECT
> Rationales & Evidence Online Feedback
> (e.g. skip, dwell time) Reflector
> Lightweight
> Video Editing
> Plan
> Revision
> Target Product
> User-specific Data
> Serving Context
> (e.g. demographics,
> behavioral history, ... )
> (e.g. key selling points,
> product image, ... )
> (e.g. format, duration,
> platform policies, ... )
> Revision
> Directives
> User
> profile
> Creative
> scripts
> Product
> visuals,
> ...
> Product
> highligts,
> ...
> Attribution
> Closed-loop Creative Evolution

Figure 3: Overview of the architecture of NextAds, comprising four core components: Director , Producer , Verifier , and Reflector .

• Storyboard generation. Conditioned on the matching results and user-preferred presentation styles, Director produces an executable, scene-level storyboard script that specifies the full ad content, namely what appears in each scene (key messages, visuals, narration/on-screen text) and how scenes are ordered and paced, ensuring a coherent flow from attention capture to the final Call-to-Action (CTA) under the serving context. 

• Asset grounding. To support faithful and controllable gener-ation, Director binds storyboard elements to eligible product assets ( e.g., product images, logos) and user-preferred visual cues (e.g., color palettes and aesthetic elements), producing grounding constraints that guide subsequent generation and verification. Overall, given user-specific data, a target product, and contexts, 

Director constructs a structured creative plan, including a user profile, executable storyboard, and corresponding assets, to serve as a controllable blueprint for subsequent generation and verification. 

3.2.2 Producer . This module executes the detailed creative plan by realizing the storyboard script with the selected assets, producing candidate creatives. This step largely reduces to controllable video generation, an active research direction in the computer vision community, and beyond the scope of this work. Therefore, we treat video generation models as off-the-shelf tools and do not attempt to dissect or improve the script-to-creative realization process. 

3.2.3 Verifier . As the utility-and-compliance gatekeeper in Nex-tAds, given a candidate creative together with the associated user, product, and context, Verifier performs a dual-track assessment: 1) 

utility verification that estimates whether the creative is likely to be effective, and 2) compliance verification that determines whether the creative is eligible for deployment. On the utility track, 

Verifier evaluates the creative from four perspectives: 

• Video quality : production fidelity validation, including visu-al/auditory clarity, temporal stability, and obvious artifacts, etc. 

• Personalization : the creative’s attractiveness to the target user. 

• Product alignment : to verify consistency between the depicted product/claims in the creative and the target product attributes. 

• Context alignment : to evaluate whether the creative matches current contexts ( e.g., user currently viewing content). On the compliance track, Verifier identifies potential policy and risk violations prior to deployment: 

• Safety : to avoid unsafe or sensitive topics, deceptive patterns, and violations of platform advertising policies. 

• Privacy and personalization boundaries : to prevent revela-tion, inference, or implication of sensitive personal information. 

• Fairness and bias : to avoid potentially discriminatory or stereotypical language and visuals. 

• Copyright, portrait rights, and asset licensing : to ensure that music, voice, and imagery are properly licensed; check portrait rights ( e.g., identifiable individuals and public figures); and flag trademark misuse, or unlicensed derivative content. 

Verifier aggregates utility and compliance outcomes to derive a final decision. Creatives that pass all checks are marked accepted, explicitly labeled as AI Created , and deployed to users. Creatives with low utility or severe compliance violations are marked reject, while the remaining cases are marked revise when minor issues persist. For all non-accepted cases, Verifier forwards the decision to 

Reflector together with structured rationales and localized evidence (e.g., the triggering claim, visual segment). 

3.2.4 Reflector . As the feedback-to-refine engine of NextAds, 

Reflector transforms both pre-deployment assessments and post-deployment interaction signals into actionable, minimal interven-tion, enabling the system to iteratively and timely refine the creative without re-running the entire process from scratch. Importantly, 

Reflector is time-scale agnostic: the same mechanism can trigger updates within an impression, across repeated impressions, or over longer session and campaign horizons. Concretely, Reflector 

receives two types of feedback: 1) structured rationales with localized evidence from Verifier for creatives that are rejected or marked for revision, and 2) online user interaction signals ,such as dwell time, skips, engagement events, and downstream conversions. Given these feedback, Reflector performs attribution to identify where the failure originates, distinguishing between: 

• Plan-level issues : inaccurate user modeling, poor user-product matching, mismatched style/tone, weak hook, or unclear CTA. 

• Execution-level issues : rendering artifacts, timing and tran-sitions, overlay/caption placement, voiceover quality, and local inconsistencies between depicted content and grounded assets. Based on the attribution, Reflector produces minimal revision directives that can be executed by upstream modules with low latency and bounded cost. These directives are routed to Director 

for plan revision ( e.g., adjusting hook strategy, updating user profile, or adding explicit constraints), and/or to Producer for lightweight editing ( e.g., trimming, re-captioning, or localized re-generation). Through iterative patching, NextAds supports closed-loop self-refinement while maintaining controllability and compliance. NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY 

## 3.3 Creative Evolution Across Impressions 

Advertising is inherently temporal, where campaigns unfold over time and repeatedly reach the same user across multiple impres-sions. Under traditional retrieval-based paradigm, creatives are produced offline and remain largely static during serving. As a result, repeated impressions often replay the same creative or a small set of variants, making it hard to incorporate newly observed user feedback, react to context shifts, or mitigate creative fatigue. This static loop not only limits personalization granularity but also accelerates ad avoidance behaviors, ultimately reducing effec-tiveness. In contrast, NextAds enables serving-time, closed-loop adaptation and supports creative evolution across impressions. Rather than treating each impression as an isolated optimization problem, it can update the creative plan, asset orchestration, and execution strategy based on impression-level feedback. 

3.3.1 Iterative Refinement Across Impressions . Across re-peated impressions, NextAds can refine creatives using online user feedback ( e.g., view duration, skips, and replays) to reduce fatigue and improve relevance. Practically, it can take the following forms: 

• Diversity under consistency. Vary creative angles, narrative hooks, and visual styles to avoid repetition, while preserving core brand identity and previously verified claims. 

• Personalization updates. Refine user preferences ( e.g., pacing, tone, and scenarios) as engagement signals reveal what resonates. 

• Adaptive message allocation. Re-rank and schedule product facets ( e.g., price, durability, aesthetics, use cases) so that later impressions complement rather than repeat earlier ones. 

• Budgeted interventions. Choose between low-cost edits ( e.g., 

re-timing, overlays, captions, cuts) and higher-cost re-generation depending on expected gain and latency/cost budgets. This turns repeated serving into an exploration—exploitation prob-lem: the system explores diverse creative hypotheses to refine user preference boundaries, while exploiting the best-performing strategies under strict compliance constraints. 

3.3.2 From Impression to Session: Progressive Storytelling .

Over longer horizons, optimization extends beyond individual impression to user session, where advertising becomes a problem of sequential decision-making and progressive storytelling . A user session can be modeled as a trajectory: at each step, the system observes the current context and accumulated interaction history, produces a creative plan and its realization, and incorporates user feedback to optimize cumulative conversions, long-term engagement, brand trust, and fatigue control. NextAds enables progressive disclosure: early impressions can prioritize lightweight, native-aligned hooks and intent clarification, while later impressions introduce deeper product information, com-parisons, or stronger CTAs as user interests increase. This reframes personalization from maximizing immediate click probability to deciding what story to tell next given what has already been shown and the user’s response. To ensure coherence, Director can maintain session memory to track previously delivered claims and angles to avoid repetition, observe user feedback to refine preference modeling, select product facets to ensure complementarity, and enforce escalation constraints to prevent abrupt shifts in tone. Ultimately, NextAds move beyond optimizing isolated creatives toward learning a generative campaign policy that produces scripts, assets, and realizations conditioned on the evolving session state. 

## 4 Task Instantiations and Benchmarks 

To move beyond a system-level conceptual paradigm and make different designs and algorithms comparable under a shared setting, we instantiate NextAds as concrete, reproducible tasks with fixed input-output interfaces and objectives. 

## 4.1 Task Formulation 

As shown in Figure 2, we propose two representative tasks based on whether the ad creative is generated as standalone content or integrated into existing content. 

4.1.1 Personalized Creative Generation (PCG) . This task aims to produce a standalone personalized video ads that are consumed independently as content, as commonly seen in short-form in-feed platforms like TikTok 1.

• Inputs: 1) User-specific data, such as demographics and be-havioral history; 2) target product, including key selling points, and eligible assets like product images and logo; and 3) serving context, such as aspect ratio and platform policies. 

• Outputs: 1) Detailed creative plan as an intermediate artifact; and 2) personalized video creative. 

• Objectives and constraints: As specified in Section 3.2.3, PCG aims to maximize advertising utility along three dimensions: video quality, personalization, and product alignment. In addition, the creative must pass the compliance verification and required “AI Created” disclosure. 

4.1.2 Personalized Creative Integration (PCI) . On video plat-forms such as YouTube 2, advertising is frequently delivered as pre-roll or mid-roll units that are largely generic and temporally interrupt the viewing experience. Such interruption can be per-ceived as disruptive or intrusive, potentially leading to negative user sentiment and avoidance behaviors. Motivated by this, PCI aims to seamlessly integrate advertising messages into an existing host video ( e.g., the video currently being viewed) in a personalized manner without degrading the viewing experiences. 

• Inputs: Same as the PCG task (user-specific data, target product, and serving context), plus a host video to be integrated with. 

• Outputs: 1) Detailed creative plan as an intermediate artifact; and 2) personalized video creative with the integration point. 

• Objectives and constraints: PCI optimizes advertising utility while preserving the host content experience. In addition to video quality, personalization, and product alignment, PCI emphasizes integration quality, requiring low intrusiveness to the host video. Similarly, the creative must pass the compliance verification and required “AI Created” disclosure. 

## 4.2 Benchmark Construction 

To catalyze research progress under the NextAds paradigm and enable fair comparisons across different algorithms, we construct two benchmarks for the PCG and PCI tasks. Each benchmark  

> 1https://ads.tiktok.com/business/creativecenter/tiktok-topads-spotlight/.
> 2https://business.google.com/en-all/ad-solutions/youtube-ads/best-ads/. Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY Yiyan Xu et al.

includes 50 users; for each user, we select five target products, yielding 250 user-product pairs per benchmark. 

Product library. We first build a product library consisting of 18 

products spanning electronics ( e.g., smartphones), retail goods ( e.g., 

shoes, skincare, and food), and platform services ( e.g., streaming and ride-hailing). For each product, we collect a bundle of eligible creative assets, including product images, brand logos, slogans, and detailed descriptions. This product library serves as a unified source of candidate assets for benchmark construction and evaluation. 

4.2.1 PCG-Bench . Built on the Qilin recommendation dataset 3 [ 5], where each user is associated with a historical interaction sequence of multimodal notes with metadata (title, image, and text), we select 

50 representative users with distinctive and consistent preferences, ensuring their histories provide sufficient signals for user modeling. For each selected user, we pair the five most compatible products from the product library to form user-product pairs. 

4.2.2 PCI-Bench . Built on the MicroLens dataset 4 [29 ], a large-scale micro-video recommendation dataset that provides user interaction histories and multimodal video information (titles, cover images, and full-length videos), we similarly select 50 representative users with clear preferences and pair each with five best-matched products from the product library. For each user sequence, we designate the last interacted micro-video as the host video for creative integration, and use the remaining videos as 

user-specific data for user modeling. This setup reflects a realistic advertising scenario in which the system leverages prior behaviors to personalize creative integration into the current video. 

4.2.3 Evaluation Suites . To comprehensively evaluate the gen-erated creatives, we design a multi-aspect evaluation suite covering video quality, personalization, product alignment, integration qual-ity, and diversity. For video quality , we adopt Motion Smoothness (MS), Dynamic Degree (DD), Aesthetics Quality (AQ), and Imaging Quality (IQ), as suggested in VBench [ 17 ] to assess basic video fidelity. The remaining aspects require multimodal understanding and reasoning, which are hard to capture with conventional quantitative metrics, while human evaluation is costly and difficult to reproduce. Therefore, we leverage the state-of-the-art VLM Gemini 2.5-Flash [ 10 ] as an automatic judge: it scores each criterion on a 0-10 scale based on predefined rules and simultaneously provides detailed rationales to support its judgments. Specifically, for personalization , we present the user’s historically interacted content alongside the generated creative to assess alignment in presentation ( e.g., tone, artistic style) and content ( e.g., topics, scenes, appeal). For product alignment , we provide product information with the creative to evaluate product identity, brand elements, selling points, and factual consistency. For diversity ,we assess similarity among all creatives generated for the same user in visual style, narrative structure, topics, and scenes. For 

integration quality in the PCI task, we insert the generated creative into the corresponding host video and evaluate contextual flow, thematic consistency, and user experience disruption. The evaluation prompts can be found at Appendix A. 

> 3https://github.com/RED-Search/Qilin.
> 4https://github.com/westlake-repl/MicroLens.

## 5 Feasibility Study 

To investigate the feasibility of instantiating NextAds, we conduct exploratory experiments on both the PCG and PCI tasks. As an initial step, we focus on validating Director and Producer , leaving 

Verifier and Reflector for multi-turn refinement to future work. 

Implementation. We implement Director and Producer using both open-source and closed-source GenAI: 1) NextAds (open-source) : Qwen3-VL 5 as Director and Wan2.2 6 as Producer ; and 2) 

NextAds (closed-source) : GPT-4o [ 18 ] as Director and Sora2 [ 30 ]as Producer . For comparison, we also include GenericAd (closed-source) , where Director conditions only on the target product and serving context. It uses no user-specific data in either task; for PCI, it also excludes the host video. 

## 5.1 Personalized Creative Generation 

5.1.1 Pipeline . To achieve personalized creative generation, our pipeline consists of the following five key stages. More details can be found in Figure 6 in Appendix. 

• Multimodal user modeling. To support precise user modeling, we build user profiles using a VLM to infer users’ textual and visual preferences from interaction history. We characterize textual preferences by topical interests and presentation style (e.g., tone), and infer visual preferences by aggregating interacted images to identify preferred visual styles and elements. 

• User-product matching. Next, conditioned on the user profile and target product information, we employ the VLM to evaluate product–interest compatibility across the user’s multiple topical interests and select the best-matching topic/scenario, thereby naturally connecting user interests to commercial intent. 

• Storyboard generation. Based on the user profile and matching result, the VLM generates an executable, scene-level storyboard script, which specifies camera motions, narration pacing, and visual composition for every 2–3 second slot. 

• Asset grounding. To support faithful generation and mitigate hallucinations, we construct a reference visual collage that combines user-preferred visual elements with official product images. This collage serves as a strict grounding constraint, ensuring both personalization and alignment with the product. 

• Video creative generation. Finally, given the storyboard and grounded assets, we use a video generation model to synthesize the final creative, blending the user-preferred topic and aesthetics with the product’s key features. 

5.1.2 Overall Performance . From the results shown in Table 1, we have the following observations: 

• Compared to GenericAds, NextAds significantly improves per-sonalization while preserving comparable product alignment and video quality, highlighting the potential of current GenAI to lever-age user-specific signals for the PCG task. However, the slight drop in diversity suggests a trade-off between personalization and diversity; developing methods that improve both simultaneously remains a promising direction for future research.  

> 5https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct.
> 6https://huggingface.co/Wan-AI/Wan2.2-TI2V-5B. NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY

Table 1: Overall performance of existing GenAI in both PCG and PCI tasks. The best results are highlighted in bold. #PCG-Bench Personalization Product Alignment Integration Quality Diversity Video Quality Presentation Content MS DD AQ IQ GenericAds (Closed) 1.77 1.52 8.48 - 7.10 0.9756 0.9742 0.5494 0.6524 NextAds (Closed) 7.12 5.09 8.58 - 6.57 0.9406 0.9797 0.5259 0.6339                                               

> NextAds (Open) 6.01 3.35 3.44 -5.40 0.9693 0.9800 0.4064 0.6199
> #PCI-Bench Personalization Product Alignment Integration Quality Diversity Video Quality Presentation Content MS DD AQ IQ GenericAds (Closed) 3.97 2.24 9.58 3.89 9.64 0.9873 0.9375 0.5082 0.6422
> NextAds (Closed) 8.56 8.32 7.89 8.67 2.80 0.9867 0.9360 0.5243 0.6508 NextAds (Open) 5.44 4.20 6.26 6.27 7.58 0.9771 0.9320 0.4385 0.5986 User Preferences
> AI Created Walmart
> KFC Solo Living Diaries
> Winter Outfits
> AI Created

Figure 4: Examples generated by NextAds on PCG-Bench. 

• Open-source NextAds achieves video quality comparable to its closed-source counterpart. However, its inferior personaliza-tion and product alignment suggest that current open-source models still struggle with complex conditioning, particularly when guided by detailed storyboard scripts and reference visual collages. Nevertheless, we believe this issue will be substantially alleviated with continued progress in open-source models. 

5.1.3 Case Study . We present examples generated by closed-source NextAds in Figure 4. Based on user interaction history, the model accurately infers two dominant preferences ( i.e., Winter Outfits and Solo Living Diaries ) with a stronger inclination toward the former. For Walmart, the model identifies high semantic compatibility between the user’s interest in Winter Outfits and Walmart’s apparel-related offerings, and thus generates a hook centered on “Winter fashion essentials under $50” to capture attention. In contrast, for KFC, the model pivots to Solo Living Diaries , which better aligns with KFC’s themes of comfort and convenience, and constructs a storyline around “Your cozy daily indulgence”. Overall, this adaptive user-product matching priori-tizes user–product compatibility over naive top-interest matching, improving relevance while reducing the risk of semantic mismatch. 

## 5.2 Personalized Creative Integration 

5.2.1 Pipeline . To achieve personalized creative integration, the pipeline consists of the following six key stages. More details can be found in Figure 7 in Appendix. 

• Multimodal user modeling. Based on user interaction history, especially the videos they have engaged with according to the PCI-Bench, we use a VLM to preprocess these videos and annotate preliminary attributes, including topic, textual presentation style ( e.g., tone, narrative structure, and information density), and visual presentation style ( e.g., visual tone and camera motion). We then aggregate these annotations together with the corresponding video covers to construct a user profile that captures the user’s textual and visual preferences, as well as finer-grained preferred elements. 

• Host video summarization. We use a VLM to generate a struc-tured summary of the host video, which captures four key aspects: topic, content, visual presentation, and audio characteristics. 

• Integration decision. Since the PCI task primarily targets seamless integration of the generated creative, we focus on integration smoothness and omit the user–product matching stage. Specifically, we employ a VLM to determine the optimal integration point. Given the target product information and the host video, the model identifies the frame that yields the most natural transition for introducing the product, and outputs 1) the chosen integration point with a brief rationale and 2) the corresponding start frame in the host video for integration. 

• Storyboard generation. Based on the user profile, target product information, host video summary, and the integration decision, the VLM generates a detailed storyboard script similar to the PCG pipeline. Importantly, the creative is required to start at the selected integration point and eventually return to it, ensuring a smooth transition back to the host video. This constraint encourages the generated content to blend naturally with the surrounding host video context. 

• Asset grounding. Likewise, to promote faithful generation and reduce hallucinations, we build a reference visual collage by compositing the target product images, user-preferred elements, and the selected integration start frame, which provides explicit visual grounding that constrains the creative generation process. 

• Video creative integration. Finally, we use a video generation model to synthesize the ad creative from the storyboard and grounded assets, and then insert the generated segment into the host video at the selected integration point. 

5.2.2 Overall Performance . From the results shown in Table 1, we have the following observations: 

• Compared to GenericAds, NextAds achieves substantial gains in personalization while maintaining comparable video quality. Most importantly, the integration decision stage enables more seamless creative integration into the host video. However, product alignment decreases under this more constrained setting, as the model must jointly satisfy host-video continuity and strict grounding while incorporating user-specific preferences. Moreover, the requirement of seamless integration narrows the space of feasible generations and thus reduces diversity, revealing Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY Yiyan Xu et al. Integration point   

> Integration point
> •Close-up shots of chopsticks handling food
> •Bustling street food environments
> Coca Cola
> Walmart
> Host video
> User Preferences
> AI Created
> AI Created

Figure 5: Examples generated by NextAds on PCI-Bench. 

a trade-off between integration quality and diversity. Together, these observations highlight an important open challenge: how to preserve strong user preference modeling while maintaining product consistency, while also achieving high-quality integra-tion without sacrificing diversity, capabilities that are likely crucial for advancing personalized creative integration systems. 

• Closed-source models typically exhibit stronger visual under-standing and generation capabilities, leading to more accurate user modeling and higher-quality video creatives. For example, the closed-source NextAds nearly doubles the performance of the open-source one in personalization. Interestingly, the open-source model attains a relatively higher diversity score; however, this apparent advantage likely reflects weaker controllability and instruction following, i.e., it does not strictly adhere to the conditioning signals such as storyboard constraints and integration requirements, thereby producing more varied but less aligned outputs. In contrast, the closed-source model follows longer and more complex scripts more faithfully, and the resulting stricter conditioning can narrow the feasible generation space and exacerbate diversity collapse. 

5.2.3 Case Study . We present examples generated by the closed-source NextAds in Figure 5. Based on user interaction history, the model accurately infers user preference for Sichuan cuisine and lively, crowd-rich scenes, and incorporates these cues into the generated creatives. For Coca-Cola, the creative transitions smoothly from the host preparing to taste spicy food to picking up a bottle of Coca-Cola, positioning it as a complementary beverage to Sichuan hotpot. This preserves narrative continuity while grounding the product in the surrounding scene context. For Walmart, the host video segment showcasing hotpot ingredients naturally shifts to a Walmart supermarket scenario, where these ingredients are framed as being sourced from Walmart, enabling contextually coherent integration. Overall, these cases demonstrate that NextAds can effectively capture user preferences to generate personalized creatives for the target product, and seamlessly integrate the resulting ad segments into the host video. 

## 5.3 Discussion 

In this section, we analyzes limitations under extreme conditions and summarizes critical insights. 

5.3.1 Failure Analysis . During pipeline construction, we observe the following two representative failure modes: 

• Spurious conditioning. A key challenge arises when person-alization is driven by high-level semantic or conceptual user preferences ( e.g., lifestyle, narrative vibe, or perceived quality), which do not necessarily require specific visual cues to be expressed. However, current generative models can exhibit 

spurious conditioning : they realize these high-level preference signals by introducing unnecessary visual cues that act as noise and may even conflict with the grounded target product images. A representative case is brand-centric preferences. For example, when targeting an Adidas product to a user who frequently engages with Nike content, the model may inadvertently inject Nike-associated design patterns ( e.g., Swoosh-like curves) into the rendered Adidas shoe, leading to brand-confusion artifacts. This phenomenon places higher demands on Director for user modeling that avoids unnecessary visual instantiation, as well as stricter asset grounding to preserve product alignment. 

• Forced personalization under low compatibility. Person-alization is beneficial only when user preferences can be se-mantically and visually reconciled with the target product. In low-compatibility settings, forcing a match, even the “least-bad” one, often yields incoherent creatives and visual dissonance, ultimately hurting user experience. For instance, pairing soft pastel style with Gillette Razor can result in an industrial razor awkwardly placed in a soft, dreamy environment. This motivates a practical fallback strategy: when user–product compatibility falls below a threshold, the system should revert to a generic (non-personalized) creative rather than forcing personalization. 

5.3.2 Key Insights In Pipeline Design . Two architectural prin-ciples proved pivotal for effective generation: 

• Decoupling planning from execution. NextAds explicitly separates Director (creative planning) from Producer (video synthesis), committing to a structured plan before pixel-level generation to better preserve narrative coherence and overall quality. Crucially, exposing an interpretable intermediate plan further enables automated and human verification/intervention (e.g., compliance checks and integration-point validation), im-proves controllability via direct plan revision, and facilitates error attribution by isolating failures in planning versus execution. This modular design also allows Director and Producer to be upgraded independently without re-engineering the entire system. 

• Multi-source visual grounding for faithful generation. Text-only prompting often fails to reliably preserve visual details, leading to product drift, misaligned personalization, and con-textual mismatch with the host video. We therefore ground generation with three complementary visual references: 1) target product images to lock key product attributes, 2) user-preferred visual elements to anchor personalization, and 3) the integration start frame for the PCI task to match the host context and support seamless transitions. Together, these references act as hard constraints that improve product faithfulness, preference alignment, and integration coherence. NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY 

## 6 Potential Research Opportunities 

Under the NextAds paradigm, several promising research directions arise, offering rich opportunities for future exploration: 

• Continually user modeling across sequential impressions. 

NextAds relies on continually and accurately modeling user pref-erences to guide personalized video creative generation. This is challenging because advertising systems typically rely on implicit feedback ( e.g., interaction history and conversions), which is noisy and heavily confounded by context such as location and time. More-over, user preferences evolve over time, effective modeling must move beyond fixed profiles to jointly capture short-term intent and long-term interests. To address these challenges, promising research directions include: 1) applying causal and debiasing methods to disentangle genuine preference from exposure effects [ 15 , 39 ]; and 2) developing a hierarchical memory for managing multi-timescale user preferences to ensure reliable, longitudinal personal-ization [ 9 , 51 ]. Notably, as personalization becomes more granular, it is essential to address the utility–privacy trade-off and define clear personalization boundaries. Approaches, such as federated learning [ 16 ] and other privacy-preserving techniques [ 14 ], offer potential solutions for balancing personalization with user privacy. 

• Trade-off between personalization and diversity. NextAds may carry the risk of over-optimizing towards user preferences, potentially leading to filter bubbles and creative fatigue. To mitigate this, one promising approach is to prioritize exploration strategies within the generative process [ 24 ]. Rather than relying exclu-sively on exploiting known preferences, controlled stochasticity is introduced to inject novel narrative styles, visual aesthetics, or unexpected hooks. This mechanism offers two key functions: 1) fatigue mitigation, it circumvents the diminishing returns of redundant ad creatives by maintaining high informational entropy. 2) continual user preference refinement, it enables a broader range of user feedback collection from diverse creatives, thereby enriching the understanding of the user’s evolving preference boundaries. 

• Online user simulation for refining creative utility. In real-world advertising, offline metrics often only provide rough approximations of true advertising utility, creating a persistent gap between offline evaluation and online revenue. As a result, improvements observed offline do not reliably translate into consistent revenue gains online. Although online experiments can deliver more faithful signals of utility, they are expensive and may harm user engagement and experience by exposing users to suboptimal creatives. To address these challenges, the adoption of user simulators is one promising solution [ 4 , 7, 21 ], which provides two primary advantages: 1) offline iterative tuning: simulators enable iterative model tuning offline by collecting high-quality, fine-grained feedback, supporting robust performance validation and improvement without incurring online operational risks or costs. 2) pre-deployment utility verification: user simulators can also be incorporated into the utility verification phase stated in Section 3.2.3 to validate candidate creatives before online deployment. 

• Balancing generative fidelity with serving latency. While GenAI unlocks infinite creative possibilities, it introduces signifi-cant computational overhead and latency that challenge the sub-second requirements of real-time bidding. To balancing high-fidelity generation with low-latency serving, promising directions include: 1) predictive caching, which anticipates user interests to pre-generate creative candidates during off-peak periods; 2) streaming generation, which delivers a pre-generated initial segment to mask latency, while synthesizing subsequent content conditional on real-time user retention; and 3) ROI-driven generation, where systems explicitly optimize for Return-on-Investment (ROI) when deciding whether to invoke GenAI. By estimating the potential uplift of a personalized creative versus a retrieved stock asset, the system can dynamically allocate computational resources, reserving expensive generative processes only for high-value impressions where personalization yields the highest marginal return. 

• Synergy between targeting, auction, and creative optimiza-tion. NextAds fundamentally shifts personalized video advertising from a static, retrieval-based selection task to a dynamic, generation-based optimization problem. Traditional targeting mechanism acts largely as a filter, matching a fixed, pre-produced creative to the most relevant audience. By contrast, NextAds concentrates targeting on identifying the highest-value user–product pairs, then uses GenAI to synthesize personalized creatives that connect them. To make this paradigm practical, two research directions stand out: 1) Augment targeting with generatability prediction. Beyond estimating conversion propensity, targeting should predict whether personalization is feasible for a given user–product pair, 

i.e., the expected headroom of generation under available assets and contextual constraints. 2) Design auctions that trade off generation cost and expected lift. For each user–product pair, the mechanism should jointly optimize targeting and generation to decide whether to serve a pre-produced creative or invest in a more expensive personalized one, maximizing expected net value. 

## 7 Related Work 

• Video Advertising. As shown in Figure 1, the evolution of video advertising [ 1 , 19 , 26 , 32 ] can be characterized along two key dimensions: personalization and nativeness. Traditional formats (e.g., billboards and broadcast TV advertising) remain low on both, relying on static creatives and mass delivery. Digital advertising ( e.g., 

programmatic display, search, and retargeting) enhances personal-ization primarily through audience targeting, while creatives are of-ten weakly integrated with contextual content. Native formats, such as product placement, branded content, and influencer marketing, achieve higher nativeness via storytelling and seamless contextual integration, while offering limited personalization. Owing to high production costs and manual creative workflows, scaling creative-level personalization is challenging. Although dynamic creative optimization partially mitigates this trade-off, video production overhead still hampers the simultaneous attainment of high person-alization and high nativeness. Our proposed NextAds, empowered by GenAI, has the potential to bridge this gap by enabling scalable, context-aware, and personalized video creatives. 

• Generative AI for Advertising. Recent advances in GenAI have made it possible to synthesize ad creatives at scale. Prior work utilizes Diffusion Models (DMs) and Large Language Models (LLMs) for generating personalized ad images and banners [ 38 ] , and further moved toward utility-oriented optimization by guiding Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY Yiyan Xu et al. 

generation with engagement objectives such as click-through-rate [ 8]. More broadly, agentic multimodal frameworks have been discussed for hyper-personalized advertising workflows [ 36 ]. Overall, existing work remains largely centered on static image creatives, while generation-based personalized video advertising has received far less systematic attention. With the emergence of modern video generation models, it becomes timely to revisit personalized video advertising from a generation-first perspective. 

• Personalized Generation. Large generative models, such as DMs [ 12 , 40 ], LLMs [ 46 ], and VLMs [ 2 ] has stimulated growing interests in personalized generation across multiple modalities [ 43 ]. By tailoring content to better align with individual preferences and content needs, personalized generation enables more engaging, and user-centric experiences. Recent studies have demonstrated that modern generative models can effectively capture user preferences and produce high-quality personalized content [ 33 , 34 , 41 , 44 ]. Nevertheless, personalized ad creative generation remains com-paratively underexplored, and limited efforts mostly focus on images [ 37 , 47 ]. In contrast, personalized video creative genera-tion, with strong storytelling capacity, is still lacking systematic investigation. This gap motivates our work, which takes a first step toward personalized video advertising by reframing it from retrieval over a static inventory to generation-based creative optimization. 

## 8 Conclusion 

In this work, we envisioned NextAds, a generation-based paradigm for personalized video advertising that shifts creative optimization from retrieval over a finite inventory to continuous, closed-loop generation in a continuous creative space. NextAds is instantiated as a modular system that supports structured planning, grounded generation, pre-deployment verification, and feedback-driven re-finement. To make the paradigm actionable and comparable, we formulated two representative tasks and introduced corresponding lightweight benchmarks. Exploratory experiments suggest that current GenAI can generate and integrate personalized creatives with encouraging quality, personalization, and product alignment. We hope NextAds and its task/benchmark formulations can serve as a foundation for future work on scalable, adaptive, and compliant personalized video advertising. 

## Disclosure Statement 

All product information and user profiles shown in figures are illus-trative examples for research only, and do not imply endorsement, partnership, sponsorship, or any commercial affiliation. They must not be used for commercial advertising or promotion. If any IP, trademark, portrait rights concerns arise, the corresponding figures can be replaced with alternative illustrative assets. 

## A Evaluation Prompts 

To assess the generated creatives, we adopt an LLM-as-a-judge setup and design five dedicated judge prompts, as follows. 

Personalization – Presentation 

You are an expert in evaluating the presentation of creative content. Given a product and the covers of the user’s interacted videos, evaluate how well the advertisement aligns with the user’s aesthetic preferences regarding visual style. Consider the following factors: 

• Tone : Does the tone match the user’s preference (warm, cold, neutral)? 

• Lighting : Is the lighting appropriate for the user’s preference (soft, harsh, natural)? 

• Texture : Does the texture (smooth, rough, etc. ) fit with the user’s aesthetic? 

• Artistic style : Does the artistic style (minimalistic, modern, vintage, etc. ) align with the user’s taste? 

Criteria: 

• Perfect match (10) : The content presentation matches perfectly with the user’s preferences. 

• Good match (7-9) : The content presentation aligns well but has some minor differences. 

• Moderate match (4-6) : The content presentation partially matches the user’s preferences. 

• Poor match (1-3) : The content presentation does not align well with the user’s preferences. 

• No match (0) : The content presentation completely fails to align with the user’s preferences. 

Output JSON: 

> {"score": number, "reason": "brief analysis" }

Personalization – Content 

You are an expert in evaluating how well the advertisement matches the user’s interest. Given a product and the covers of the user’s interacted videos, Evaluate how well the advertisement aligns with the user’s aesthetic preferences regarding visual style. Consider the following factors: 

• Subject matter : Does the subject matter of the advertisement align with the user’s preferences? 

• Scene semantics : Does the scene selection (location, setting) align with what the user would enjoy? 

• Information angle : Does the advertisement focus on the aspects the user cares about (performance, aesthetics, value for money)? 

• Appeal : Does the ad focus on motivations that resonate with the user (saving money, efficiency, quality, aesthetics, health, eco-friendliness)? 

Criteria: 

• Perfect match (10) : The content is perfectly aligned with the user’s preferences. 

• Good match (7-9) : The content aligns well but with some differences. 

• Moderate match (4-6) : The content partially aligns with the user’s preferences. 

• Poor match (1-3) : The content does not align well with the user’s preferences. NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY 

• No match (0) : The content is completely irrelevant to the user. 

Output JSON: 

{"score": number, "reason": "brief analysis" }

Product Alignment 

You are an expert at evaluating the consistency of products in the advertisement. Given a product and the video, Evaluate how well the advertisement matches the product based on the following factors: 

• Product identity accuracy : Does the ad represent the product’s appearance, color, model/version, packaging, and accessories correctly? 

• Brand and recognition elements : Does the ad correctly display the product’s logo, branding, and design language? 

• Selling points and fact consistency : Does the ad’s selling point match the product’s real features and details? 

Criteria: 

• Perfect match (10) : The product in the video matches the actual product in every way. 

• Good match (7-9) : The product is mostly consistent with minor details changed. 

• Moderate match (4-6) : The product is partially consistent, but with some significant differences. 

• Poor match (1-3) : The product in the video is mostly inconsistent with the actual product. 

• No match (0) : The product identity is completely inconsistent with the actual product. 

Output JSON: 

{"score": number, "reason": "brief analysis" }

Integration Quality 

You are an expert in evaluating the seamlessness and intru-siveness of advertisement within video content. Given a video containing an advertisement, evaluate how naturally the ad is integrated or how disruptive (intrusive) it feels to the viewer’s experience. Consider the following factors: 

• Contextual flow : Does the transition between the organic content and the advertisement feel smooth, or is it a sudden, jarring break? 

• Thematic consistency : Does the ad share a similar tone, visual style, or topic with the surrounding video content? 

• User experience disruption : Does the ad interrupt a high-stakes moment (e.g., a climax or a key explanation), or is it placed at a logical breaking point? 

• Narrative integration : Is the ad woven into the story/dia-logue (native advertising), or is it an external overlay/hard cut that pulls the viewer out of the experience? 

Criteria: 

• Seamless (10) : The ad is perfectly integrated; the viewer might not even perceive it as a disruption. 

• Natural (7-9) : The ad is well-placed and shares thematic elements with the video, causing minimal friction. 

• Noticeable but Acceptable (4-6) : The ad is clearly a break from content, but occurs at a logical pause or maintains a similar aesthetic. 

• Intrusive (1-3) : The ad feels forced, breaks the immersion significantly, or uses a jarringly different tone/volume. 

• Highly Disruptive (0) : The ad completely ruins the viewing experience through poor timing, extreme contrast, or aggres-sive interruption. 

Output JSON: 

{"score": number, "reason": "brief analysis" }

Diversity 

You are an expert at evaluating the diversity of content. Evaluate the diversity between advertisements for the same user on different products, considering the following aspects: 

• Visual style : Is there excessive similarity in tone, lighting, texture, and artistic style across different product ads? 

• Narrative form : Is the narrative structure (tutorial, vlog, plot twist, etc.) and tone (professional, humorous, etc.) overly similar across products? 

• Subject matter and scene semantics : Is the subject matter or scene selection overly similar across ads targeting the same user? 

Criteria: 

• 10 : Ads are completely distinct with no noticeable overlap. 

• 7–9 : Ads are mostly distinct with only minor similarities. 

• 4–6 : Ads are somewhat similar but still distinct in key areas. 

• 1–3 : Ads are largely similar with only slight variations. 

• 0: Ads are identical in all aspects. 

Output JSON: 

{"score": number, "reason": "brief analysis" }

## References           

> [1] Gagan Aggarwal, Ashwinkumar Badanidiyuru, Santiago R Balseiro, Kshipra Bhawalkar, Yuan Deng, Zhe Feng, Gagan Goel, Christopher Liaw, Haihao Lu, Mohammad Mahdian, et al .2024. Auto-Bidding and Auctions in Online Advertising: A Survey. SIGecom Exch. 22, 1 (2024), 159–183. [2] Shuai Bai, Yuxuan Cai, Ruizhe Chen, Keqin Chen, Xionghui Chen, Zesen Cheng, Lianghao Deng, Wei Ding, Chang Gao, Chunjiang Ge, et al .2025. Qwen3-VL Technical Report. arXiv:2511.21631 (2025).

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY Yiyan Xu et al. • Topical Interests: 1) strong: winter 

outfits, 2) medium: solo living diaries ,

and 3) weak: miscellaneous topics like 

anime, music, and personal updates. 

• Tone Preferences: casual, informative, 

lifestyle, ... 

• Style Preferences: cozy, soft lighting, ... 

• Preferred Visual Elements: bedroom, 

study desk, stationery , decorative 

items, ... 

Multimodal User Modeling 

User Profile 

User-Product Matching 

• Matching Topic: solo living diaries 

• Reason: Solo living and daily life 

themes align strongly with KFC as an 

easy, comforting meal option. A 

native ad can naturally highlight 

convenience and indulgence. The 15s 

structure is highly expressible with 

relatable hooks and clear CTAs. 

• Suggested Hooks: 1) Living solo? Treat 

yourself to KFC ’s world-famous 

chicken! 2) Your cozy daily indulgence: 

KFC Original Recipe Chicken. 

Storyboard Generation  

> {
> "duration_sec" : 15,
> "format" : "9:16",
> "hook" :"Living solo? Treat yourself to KFC ’s world-famous chicken!" ,
> "scenes" : [
> {
> "sec" : "0-2",
> "shot_goal" : "Set a cozy and relatable mood for the viewer.",
> "visual" : "A cluttered but cozy bedroom with soft lighting; a
> woman stretches on her bed with pastel bedding visible.",
> "camera_motion" : "slow push-in toward the bed",
> "action" : "The subject stretches and reaches for a cup on the
> nightstand.",
> "subtitle" : "Comfort starts here.",
> "voiceover" : "Living solo? Make it cozy.",
> "product_focus" : "Emotional connection to comfort and indulgence.",
> },
> ...

Asset Grounding 

User-preferred 

elements Product 

Image 

Video Creative Generation 

Personalized 

Creative 

User Interacted Posts Target Product 

Product name: KFC Original Recipe Chicken 

Slogan: ... 

Introduction: ... 

Details: ...                

> Title: ...
> Content: ...
> Tags: ...
> Title: ...
> Content: ...
> Tags: ...
> Title: ...
> Content: ...
> Tags: ...
> Title: ...
> Content: ...
> Tags: ...
> Title: ...
> Content: ...
> Tags: ...

AI Created 

Figure 6: Overview of the PCG pipeline. • Content Preference: street food vlogs featuring 

Sichuan spicy hotpot and grilled skewers. 

• Style Preference: vibrant, high-saturation shots 

with dynamic, handheld camera work highlighting 

the vibrant colors and textures of food. 

• Detailed Elements: cl ose-up shots of chopsticks 

handling food, bustling street food environments, 

and intense grilling scenes with visible flames. 

• Preference Tags: Food/Cooking, Journal-style Vlog, 

High Saturation/Vibrant, Dynamic/Handheld 

Multimodal User Modeling 

User Profile 

Host Video Summarization 

Overall Topic: Food: Mukbang Hotpot Experience 

Content Summary: The video features a mukbang 

session with a focus on eating a spicy hotpot dish... 

Visual Aesthetic: Casual, Homey, Engaging, ... 

Audio Environment: Voiceover, ... 

Insertion Point: 10s 

Insertion Logic: At second 10, there is a ... 

Bridge Description: At second 9-10, the video 

emphasizes the appeal and deliciousness of... 

Integration Decision 

Storyboard Generation  

> {
> "duration_sec" : 15,
> "format" : "16:9",
> "hook" :"Elevate spicy moments with refreshing Coca-Cola." ,
> "scenes" : [
> {
> "sec" : "0-2",
> "shot_goal" : "Introduce the spicy hotpot environment.",
> "visual" : "Close-up of chopsticks lifting spicy hotpot
> ingredients over a bubbling pot.",
> "camera_motion" : "Slow push-in to magnify flavors.",
> "action" : "Host discusses the spiciness as steam rises.",
> "subtitle" : "Sichuan hotpot, fiery and bold!",
> "voiceover" : "Hot, spicy, and vibrant!",
> "product_focus" : "Atmosphere setting."
> },
> ...

Asset Grounding 

Start Frame Product Image 

Video Creative Integration 

Personalized 

Creative Host Video 

Integrate 

User Interacted Videos 

Host video Product name: Coca-Cola Classic 

Slogan: ... 

Introduction: ... 

Details: ... 

Target Product 

AI Created 

Figure 7: Overview of the PCI pipeline. 

[3] Christian Borgs, Jennifer Chayes, Nicole Immorlica, Kamal Jain, Omid Etesami, and Mohammad Mahdian. 2007. Dynamics of bid optimization in online advertisement auctions. In WWW . 531–540. [4] Nicolas Bougie and Narimawa Watanabe. 2025. SimUSER: Simulating User Behavior with Large Language Models for Recommender System Evaluation. In 

ACL . 43–60. [5] Jia Chen, Qian Dong, Haitao Li, Xiaohui He, Yan Gao, Shaosheng Cao, Yi Wu, Ping Yang, Chen Xu, Yao Hu, Qingyao Ai, and Yiqun Liu. 2025. Qilin: A Multimodal Information Retrieval Dataset with APP-level User Sessions. In SIGIR . 3670–3680. [6] Jin Chen, Ju Xu, Gangwei Jiang, Tiezheng Ge, Zhiqiang Zhang, Defu Lian, and Kai Zheng. 2021. Automated creative optimization for e-commerce advertising. In WWW . 2304–2313. [7] Luyu Chen, Quanyu Dai, Zeyu Zhang, Xueyang Feng, Mingyu Zhang, Pengcheng Tang, Xu Chen, Yue Zhu, and Zhenhua Dong. 2025. RecUserSim: A Realistic and Diverse User Simulator for Evaluating Conversational Recommender Systems. In WWW (Companion Volume) . 133–142. [8] Xingye Chen, Wei Feng, Zhenbang Du, Weizhen Wang, Yanyin Chen, Haohan Wang, Linkai Liu, Yaoyu Li, Jinyuan Zhao, Yu Li, et al . 2025. CTR-Driven Advertising Image Generation with Multimodal Large Language Models. In 

WWW . 2262–2275. [9] Xu Chen, Hongteng Xu, Yongfeng Zhang, Jiaxi Tang, Yixin Cao, Zheng Qin, and Hongyuan Zha. 2018. Sequential Recommendation with User Memory Networks. In WSDM . 108–116. [10] Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, Ice Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit Dhillon, Marcel Blistein, Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen, et al .2025. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with advanced reasoning, multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. arXiv:2507.06261 (2025). [11] DeepMind. 2025. Veo-3 Model Card. https://storage.googleapis.com/deepmind-media/Model-Cards/Veo-3-Model-Card.pdf. [12] Patrick Esser, Sumith Kulal, Andreas Blattmann, Rahim Entezari, Jonas Müller, Harry Saini, Yam Levi, Dominik Lorenz, Axel Sauer, Frederic Boesel, et al . 2024. Scaling rectified flow transformers for high-resolution image synthesis. In ICML .[13] Ayman Farahat and Michael C Bailey. 2012. How effective is targeted advertising?. In WWW . 111–120. [14] Xingyu Fu, Ningyuan Chen, Pin Gao, and Yang Li. 2026. Privacy-Preserving Personalized Recommender Systems. Manuf. Serv. Oper. Manag. 28, 1 (2026), 271–289. [15] Chen Gao, Yu Zheng, Wenjie Wang, Fuli Feng, Xiangnan He, and Yong Li. 2024. Causal Inference in Recommender Systems: A Survey and Future Directions. 

TOIS 42, 4 (2024), 88:1–88:32. [16] Rui Hu, Yuanxiong Guo, Hongning Li, Qingqi Pei, and Yanmin Gong. 2020. Personalized Federated Learning With Differential Privacy. IEEE Internet Things J. 7, 10 (2020), 9530–9539. [17] Ziqi Huang, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Fan Zhang, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Yuanhan Zhang, Tianxing Wu, Qingyang Jin, Nattapol Chanpaisit, et al . 2024. Vbench: Comprehensive benchmark suite for video generative models. In CVPR .21807–21818. [18] Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al . 2024. Gpt-4o system card. arXiv:2410.21276 (2024). [19] Zaeem Hussain, Mingda Zhang, Xiaozhong Zhang, Keren Ye, Christopher Thomas, Zuha Agha, Nathan Ong, and Adriana Kovashka. 2017. Automatic Understanding of Image and Video Advertisements. In CVPR . 1100–1110. NextAds: Towards Next-generation Personalized Video Advertising Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY 

[20] Ganesh Iyer, David Soberman, and J Miguel Villas-Boas. 2005. The targeting of advertising. Marketing Science 24, 3 (2005), 461–476. [21] Akira Kasuga and Ryo Yonetani. 2024. CXSimulator: A User Behavior Simulation using LLM Embeddings for Web-Marketing Campaign Assessment. In CIKM .3817–3821. [22] Xuejian Li, Ze Wang, Bingqi Zhu, Fei He, Yongkang Wang, and Xingxing Wang. 2024. Deep automated mechanism design for integrating ad auction and allocation in feed. In SIGIR . 1211–1220. [23] Kaiyi Lin, Xiang Zhang, Feng Li, Pengjie Wang, Qingqing Long, Hongbo Deng, Jian Xu, and Bo Zheng. 2022. Joint optimization of ad ranking and creative selection. In SIGIR . 2341–2346. [24] Weiwen Liu, Yunjia Xi, Jiarui Qin, Xinyi Dai, Ruiming Tang, Shuai Li, Weinan Zhang, and Rui Zhang. 2023. Personalized diversification for neural re-ranking in recommendation. In ICDE . 802–815. [25] Xiangyu Liu, Chuan Yu, Zhilin Zhang, Zhenzhe Zheng, Yu Rong, Hongtao Lv, Da Huo, Yiqing Wang, Dagui Chen, Jian Xu, et al . 2021. Neural auction: End-to-end learning of auction mechanisms for e-commerce advertising. In KDD . 3354–3364. [26] Xinwei Long, Kai Tian, Peng Xu, Guoli Jia, Jingxuan Li, Sa Yang, Yihua Shao, Kaiyan Zhang, Che Jiang, Hao Xu, et al . 2025. Adsqa: Towards advertisement video understanding. In ICCV . 23396–23407. [27] Martín López-Nores, Yolanda Blanco-Fernández, and José Juan Pazos-Arias. 2013. Cloud-based personalization of new advertising and e-commerce models for video consumption. Comput. J. 56, 5 (2013), 573–592. [28] Shaunak Mishra, Manisha Verma, Yichao Zhou, Kapil Thadani, and Wei Wang. 2020. Learning to create better ads: Generation and ranking approaches for ad creative refinement. In CIKM . 2653–2660. [29] Yongxin Ni, Yu Cheng, Xiangyan Liu, Junchen Fu, Youhua Li, Xiangnan He, Yongfeng Zhang, and Fajie Yuan. 2025. A Content-Driven Micro-Video Recommendation Dataset at Scale. In CIKM . 6486–6491. [30] OpenAI. 2025. Sora 2 System Card. https://cdn.openai.com/pdf/50d5973c-c4ff-4c2d-986f-c72b5d0ff069/sora_2_system_card.pdf. [31] Titin Prihatiningsih, Redi Panudju, and Iwan Joko Prasetyo. 2025. Digital advertising trends and effectiveness in the modern era: A systematic literature review. Golden Ratio of Marketing and Applied Psychology of Business 5, 1 (2025), 01–12. [32] Dongjun Qian, Kai Su, Yiming Tan, Qishuai Diao, Xian Wu, Chang Liu, Bingyue Peng, and Zehuan Yuan. 2025. Vc-llm: Automated advertisement video creation from raw footage using multi-modal llms. arXiv:2504.05673 (2025). [33] Yilun Qiu, Tianhao Shi, Xiaoyan Zhao, Fengbin Zhu, Yang Zhang, and Fuli Feng. 2025. Latent Inter-User Difference Modeling for LLM Personalization. In EMNLP .10599–10617. [34] Yilun Qiu, Xiaoyan Zhao, Yang Zhang, Yimeng Bai, Wenjie Wang, Hong Cheng, Fuli Feng, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2025. Measuring What Makes You Unique: Difference-Aware User Modeling for Enhancing LLM Personalization. In ACL Findings . 21258–21277. [35] Grand View Research. 2025. Online Advertising Market (2026 - 2033). https://www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/online-advertising-market-report. [36] Sagar Srinivas Sakhinana, Akash Das, Shivam Gupta, and Venkataramana Runkana. 2025. Agentic Multimodal AI for Hyper-Personalized B2B and B2C Advertising in Competitive Markets: An AI-Driven Competitive Advertising Framework. In ICLR 2025 Workshop on Foundation Models in the Wild .[37] Veronika Shilova, Ludovic Dos Santos, Flavian Vasile, Gaëtan Racic, and Ugo Tanielian. 2023. Adbooster: Personalized ad creative generation using stable diffusion outpainting. In Workshop on Recommender Systems in Fashion and Retail .73–93. [38] Shanu Vashishtha, Abhinav Prakash, Lalitesh Morishetti, Kaushiki Nag, Yokila Arora, Sushant Kumar, and Kannan Achan. 2024. Chaining text-to-image and large language model: A novel approach for generating personalized e-commerce banners. In KDD . 5825–5835. [39] Wenjie Wang, Xinyu Lin, Fuli Feng, Xiangnan He, Min Lin, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2022. Causal Representation Learning for Out-of-Distribution Recommendation. In WWW . 3562–3571. [40] Chenfei Wu, Jiahao Li, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kaiyuan Gao, Kun Yan, Sheng-ming Yin, Shuai Bai, Xiao Xu, Yilei Chen, et al . 2025. Qwen-image technical report. arXiv:2508.02324 (2025). [41] Yiyan Xu, Wenjie Wang, Fuli Feng, Yunshan Ma, Jizhi Zhang, and Xiangnan He. 2024. Diffusion models for generative outfit recommendation. In SIGIR .1350–1359. [42] Yiyan Xu, Wenjie Wang, Yang Zhang, Biao Tang, Peng Yan, Fuli Feng, and Xiangnan He. 2025. Personalized image generation with large multimodal models. In WWW . 264–274. [43] Yiyan Xu, Jinghao Zhang, Alireza Salemi, Xinting Hu, Wenjie Wang, Fuli Feng, Hamed Zamani, Xiangnan He, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2025. Personalized Generation In Large Model Era: A Survey. In ACL . 24607–24649. [44] Yiyan Xu, Wuqiang Zheng, Wenjie Wang, Fengbin Zhu, Xinting Hu, Yang Zhang, Fuli Feng, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2025. Drc: Enhancing personalized image generation via disentangled representation composition. In MM . 9667–9676. [45] Qiyao Xue, Xiangyu Yin, Boyuan Yang, and Wei Gao. 2025. Phyt2v: Llm-guided iterative self-refinement for physics-grounded text-to-video generation. In CVPR .18826–18836. [46] An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, et al . 2025. Qwen3 technical report. arXiv:2505.09388 (2025). [47] Hao Yang, Jianxin Yuan, Shuai Yang, Linhe Xu, Shuo Yuan, and Yifan Zeng. 2024. A new creative generation pipeline for click-through rate with stable diffusion model. In WWW (Companion Volume) . 180–189. [48] Jeremy Yang, Juanjuan Zhang, and Yuhan Zhang. 2025. Engagement that sells: Influencer video advertising on TikTok. Marketing Science 44, 2 (2025), 247–267. [49] Tien Ee Dominic Yeo, Tsz Hang Chu, and Qiqi Li. 2025. How Persuasive Is Personalized Advertising? A Meta-Analytic Review of Experimental Evidence of the Effects of Personalization on Ad Effectiveness. Journal of Advertising Research 

(2025), 1–16. [50] Yang Zhou, Zubair Ahmad, Hassan Alsuhabi, Mohammed Yusuf, Ibrahim Alkhairy, and AM Sharawy. 2021. Impact of YouTube advertising on sales with regression analysis and statistical modeling: Usefulness of online media in business. Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience 2021, 1 (2021), 9863155. [51] Yujia Zhou, Qiannan Zhu, Jiajie Jin, and Zhicheng Dou. 2024. Cognitive Personalized Search Integrating Large Language Models with an Efficient Memory Mechanism. In WWW . 1464–1473.